Spartan Life Student Handbook - Fares and Passes

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
        -   Vehicles
        -   Bicycles
        -   Bus Services On-Campus
            -   Fares and Passes
            -   Weekday Service 7 a.m. to 2:30 a.m.
            -   Weekend Service 9 a.m. to 2:30 a.m.
            -   Late Night Service 2 a.m. to 7 a.m. (9 a.m. Weekends)
            -   Other CATA Services
        -   Lansing Regional Bus Service
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Transportation

> Bus Services On-Campus

> Fares and Passes

[Click here to print this page]



FARES AND PASSES


FARES AND PASSES: The student cash fare is 60¢. Cash fare customers must
show the bus driver a valid MSU ID. Free transfers are available on all
CATA buses. Students may also purchase a CATA 31 Day Pass for $18; a
Semester Pass for $50; a Commuter Lot Route Pass for $20 a semester or
$33 for two semesters. All fares and passes (with the exception of the
Commuter Lot Route Pass) are good for all on- and off-campus fixed-route
transit service with CATA. MSU sells passes at the MSU ID Office, select
Sparty Stores in some of the residence halls as well as the Sparty
Store in the Union, and other convenient campus locations. Regular fare
for non-student faculty and staff is $1.25. A 31 Day Adult Pass is
available for $35.

REPLACEMENT OF PASSES: MSU students who lose their bus pass are allowed
one replacement pass at no cost per semester ONLY IF the original pass
is linked to their student ID at the time of purchase or at the MSU ID
Office in the International Center. This pertains to student semester
and commuter lot passes only. Replacement passes are issued through the
MSU ID Office.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
