Spartan Life Student Handbook - Other CATA Services

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
        -   Vehicles
        -   Bicycles
        -   Bus Services On-Campus
            -   Fares and Passes
            -   Weekday Service 7 a.m. to 2:30 a.m.
            -   Weekend Service 9 a.m. to 2:30 a.m.
            -   Late Night Service 2 a.m. to 7 a.m. (9 a.m. Weekends)
            -   Other CATA Services
        -   Lansing Regional Bus Service
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Transportation

> Bus Services On-Campus

> Other CATA Services

[Click here to print this page]



OTHER CATA SERVICES


PARATRANSIT SERVICE, “SPEC-TRAN”: This is a curb-to-curb service for
persons with disabilities who are unable to use fixed route. Paratransit
customers must be certified to be eligible to use this service. Requests
for campus paratransit service require 24-hour advanced reservations by
calling (517) 394-2282 (CATA). The CATA cash fare for this service is
$2.50 per trip. Discount fare cards are available for certified
students, contact MSU RCPD, Resource Center for Persons with
Disabilities, (517) 353-9642 (voice); (517) 355-1293 (TTY). Customers
must be certified in accordance with ADA.

CATA INFORMATION AND ASSISTANCE: Individual schedules for all routes
serving campus are available in most residence halls, at the MSU-CATA
Transportation Center, on all buses, at other locations across campus,
and on the website. CATA’s Customer Information Center can provide
personal trip planning assistance and information on using CATA
services. Email info@cata.org, call (517) 432-2282 for assistance, or
visit: _www.cata.org_.

CATANOW provides immediate access to real-time projected departures from
any of CATA’s 1,300 plus bus stops. Actual departures – tracked via GPS
– are provided within 15 minutes of a bus departing a stop. It gives
customers the freedom to plan their trips when and where they want,
utilize their time more efficiently and reduce their dependency on
published schedules.

Obtain your bus stop number posted on every stop or on _cata.org_,
request departures via text, email or website. For details, visit
_catanow.org._

THE MSU/CATA TRANSPORTATION CENTER (MSU-CTC): This public transit indoor
facility is the main boarding center for CATA bus routes serving campus.
It is located on the ground level of the Shaw Ramp (Ramp 1), between
North and South Shaw Lanes, just east of the MSU Planetarium.

Convenient amenities include direct phone access to CATA’s Customer
Service and ride request phone lines, print maps and timetables, direct
access to the Shaw Ramp (Ramp 1), comfortable indoor seating areas, a
community policing office, Sparty Convenience Store, ATM, vending
machines, and restrooms. The facility is open 24 hours a day, seven days
a week.

Those who drive to campus and park in the Shaw Ramp (Ramp 1) can easily
board a CATA bus from the same location for a convenient inter-modal
commute.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
