Spartan Life Student Handbook - Career Services Network

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
        -   Career Services Network
        -   Career Fairs
        -   Career Advice
        -   Career Workshops
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Career Services

> Career Services Network

[Click here to print this page]



CAREER SERVICES NETWORK


The MSU Career Services Network is comprised of college-based career
consultants and specialized career centers, which work together to
support you as you navigate your time as a Spartan. Our hope is for you,
and every student at MSU, to explore and realize your passion/sense of
purpose, and apply it to your future career aspirations. From the day
you step onto campus, the Career Services Network is here to assist you
in every stage of career journey; from choosing a major and exploring
career options, to gaining work experience and conducting a successful
job search.

While it may seem far away for some, it is critical that you begin to
prepare as early as possible for your next steps after graduation. Every
class, student organization, volunteer, and work experience contributes
to your career development. The earlier you recognize the skills and
competencies you are building, the better you will be able to tell your
unique story to employers or graduate programs when you graduate.

Your first step is exploring _Handshake_, the system used by career
services to post jobs, coordinate career workshops and events, and link
to key job search resources. Simply go to _www.CareerNetwork.msu.edu_,
click on the _Handshake_ student log in button, and follow the
instructions to complete your confidential user profile. Once you are
logged in to _Handshake_, you will be able to make appointments with a
career advisor, search for part time and full time jobs, internships,
and much more.

Below are a number of services provided by the Career Services Network.

-   One-on-one career advising to assist students with exploring their
    interested, career options, and sense of purpose.
-   Career assessments to identify student’s skills and assist students
    to explore majors that are the best fit for their values, skills,
    and interests.
-   A range of part time, full time, and internship opportunities listed
    on _Handshake._
-   Opportunities to participate in mock-interviews on campus with
    employers.
-   Resume and cover letter review prior to applying for jobs and future
    career opportunities.
-   Mock interview practice and tips to assist students with identifying
    strategies for effective interviewing.
-   Access to various career resources to assist with major exploration
    and career planning.
-   Access to on-campus Career Fairs and professional development
    workshops.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
