Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 3: Student Records

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Foreword
    -   Preface
    -   Article 1: Guiding Values and Principles
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 3: Student Records
    -   Article 4: Non-Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Non-Academic Cases
    -   Article 6: Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 7: Adjudication of Academic Cases
    -   Article 8: Regulations, Policies, and Rulings
    -   Article 9: Independent and University-Supported Student
        Publications
    -   Article 10: Office of the Ombudsperson
    -   Article 11: Definitions and Acronyms
    -   Article 12: Procedures for Amending and Revising This Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 3: Student Records

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 3: STUDENT RECORDS


I. Achieving educational goals, providing direction to students, and
extending service to society demand that the University keep records.
All policies and practices concerning records shall be based on respect
for the privacy of the individual student as well as current federal and
state law.

II. Because of respect for the privacy of the individual student, record
keeping must be performed only by University personnel whose job
responsibilities require record keeping.

III. All policies and practices governing access to, and maintenance and
release of, student records shall conform to the University’s published
guidelines.  (See the _MSU Access to Student Information Guidelines._)

IV. No record shall be made, reproduced, or retained unless there is a
demonstrable need for it that is reasonably related to the basic
purposes and necessities of the University.

V. The University shall not make, reproduce, or retain records of a
student’s religious or political beliefs or affiliations without the
student’s knowledge and consent.

VI. Students shall have the right to inspect any of their own
educational records, except as waived by the student (e.g., confidential
letters of recommendation).  Student educational records include
official transcripts, student disciplinary records, and records
regarding academic performance.

VII. All policies and practices dealing with the acquisition and
dissemination of information in student records shall be formulated with
due regard for the student’s right to privacy and access.

VIII. All student educational records that are used or may be used to
make determinations about a student’s employment, financial aid, or
academic progress shall include a notation of the name of the person who
supplied the information and the date of its entry, with the exception
of central, Student Information System records.

IX. Confidential records shall be responsibly handled. Units shall train
persons handling such records in appropriate methods of keeping and
disposing of confidential records.

X. No one outside the faculty or administrative staff of Michigan State
University, except as specified by law, may have access to the record of
a student’s offenses against University regulations without the written
permission of the student.

XI. All policies governing the maintenance and the selective release of
records and of portions of records shall be made public in an
appropriate manner and shall be subject to judicial review as provided
in Article 5, Section II of this document.  These policies and practices
shall conform to current federal and state law. In addition, any changes
to the policies shall be made known to the student body through the
appropriate student governance bodies.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
