Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 4: Non-Academic Hearing Board
Structures

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Foreword
    -   Preface
    -   Article 1: Guiding Values and Principles
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 3: Student Records
    -   Article 4: Non-Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Non-Academic Cases
    -   Article 6: Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 7: Adjudication of Academic Cases
    -   Article 8: Regulations, Policies, and Rulings
    -   Article 9: Independent and University-Supported Student
        Publications
    -   Article 10: Office of the Ombudsperson
    -   Article 11: Definitions and Acronyms
    -   Article 12: Procedures for Amending and Revising This Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 4: Non-Academic Hearing Board Structures

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 4: NON-ACADEMIC HEARING BOARD STRUCTURES


Consistent with the fundamentals of fair play in any judicial process is
an opportunity for those accused to be heard by their peers. What
follows is the foundation and structure of a representative peer review
structure, embedded within the hearing procedures outlined within this
document.  This Article describes the composition and jurisdiction of
all non-academic hearing boards.  Academic hearing boards are described
in Article 6 of this document.

I. GENERAL GUIDELINES

A. _Student Membership and Selection._ A nomination committee composed
of undergraduate and graduate members from each of the hearing boards
outlined in this Article, as well as representatives from RHA, ASMSU,
and COGS, will be responsible for recruiting and nominating a full
complement of students to serve on each hearing board. At its
discretion, the committee may include faculty members in the nomination
process. The committee will be advised by a designee of the Vice
President for Student Affairs and Services, who shall be a non-voting
member. The committee will develop and follow written procedures to
govern the nomination process.

Once the nomination process is complete, the committee must submit the
names of the candidates for appointment to the appropriate governing
body (see Section I.B below) no later than the sixth week of spring
semester.

B. _Student Appointment/Reappointment._ COGS shall be responsible for
the appointment of graduate students to the hearing boards described in
this Article. RHA shall be responsible for the appointment of residence
hall hearing boards members. ASMSU shall be responsible for the
appointment of undergraduates to remaining hearing boards described in
this Article. All student appointments shall be made by the tenth week
of spring semester.

Each governing body shall make provisions for filling mid-semester
vacancies on an interim basis prior to completion of the appointment
process. If such vacancies have not been filled within two weeks, the
Provost may appoint student members to fill them. The Provost may also
appoint students to fill vacancies if students are unable to serve
during the summer or if interim members are necessary to meet quorum
requirements.

C. _Faculty and Staff Membership and Appointments._ Faculty members on
the hearing boards described in this Article shall be nominated pursuant
to the _Bylaws for Academic Governance_ and appointed by the President.
Faculty members may serve no more than two consecutive full-term
appointments. Staff members on the hearing boards described in this
Article shall be nominated by the Executive Vice President for
Administrative Services and appointed by the President. Staff members
may serve no more than two consecutive full-term appointments.

The Provost may appoint members from the faculty and staff ranks to fill
vacancies in the event that mid-semester openings occur, members are
unable to serve during the summer, or interim members are necessary to
meet quorum requirements.

D. _Advisors._ Each hearing board described in this Article shall have
an advisor designated by the Vice President. The role of the advisor is
to see that each hearing board follows the provisions outlined in this
document. The advisor shall serve as an ex-officio and non-voting member
of the hearing board.

E. _Code of Operations. _All hearing boards shall follow a written code
of operations that will be reviewed and approved by UCSA. The codes of
operation of student-only hearing boards described in Section II of this
Article must be approved by their related major governing groups. Each
code of operations must be consistent with this document, including
confidentiality provisions, procedures for determining whether a
complaint warrants a judicial hearing, and how a hearing is to be
conducted.

The codes of operation shall, at a minimum, require that board members
be trained, provide for the appointment of board members to specific
board roles, and establish procedures for the assessment of conflicts of
interest and removal of board members if necessary. The codes of
operation shall also define the quorum for the hearing board, which in
no case shall be less than five board members or 50% of the currently
appointed membership, whichever is less. The codes of operation shall
also address procedures for expedited consideration of urgent cases in
which a temporary restraining action is sought.

II. STUDENT-ONLY HEARING BOARDS

A. _University Housing Hearing Boards._ The RHA may establish it’s own
hearing boards with jurisdiction over cases involving:

1. Complaints of personal misconduct occurring in or around University
housing, including alleged violations of General Student Regulations,
Student Group Regulations, Living Group Regulations, or University
policies, where the possible sanction would not be expected to result in
suspension or dismissal from the University; and

2. Complaints regarding the constitution, bylaws, or policies of RHA.

University Housing Hearing Boards do not have jurisdiction over cases
involving academic misconduct, except as described in Article 5, Section
I of this document.

B. _All-University Student Hearing Board._ ASMSU and COGS shall form one
All-University Student Hearing Board to be comprised of at least three
undergraduate students and three graduate students. This hearing board
will have jurisdiction over cases involving:

1. Complaints of personal misconduct occurring in or around University
housing that involve a graduate student, or for which another hearing
board is not available and where the possible sanction would not be
expected to result in suspension or dismissal from the University;

2. Complaints alleging violations of General Student Regulations,
Student Group Regulations, or University policies by individual members
or constituent groups within ASMSU or COGS where the possible sanction
would not be expected to result in suspension or dismissal from the
University;

3. Complaints regarding the constitution, bylaws, or policies of ASMSU
or COGS.

The All-University Student Hearing Board does not have jurisdiction over
cases involving academic misconduct, except as described in Article 5,
Section I of this document.

C. _Terms of Appointment._ Members of student-only hearing boards shall
serve for one full calendar year, commencing with summer semester
following appointment, with opportunity for reappointment for one
additional term. Student members appointed mid-semester will serve until
the beginning of the next succeeding summer semester.

III. STUDENT-FACULTY-STAFF HEARING BOARD

A. _Composition._ The Student-Faculty-Staff Hearing Board shall be
comprised of five undergraduate students, three graduate students, two
staff members, and three faculty members.

B. _Jurisdiction._ The Student-Faculty-Staff Hearing Board shall have
jurisdiction over cases involving:

1. Complaints of personal misconduct, including alleged violations of
general student, student group, or living group regulations, or
University policies;

2. Complaints arising between or within major governing groups, student
governing groups, living units, and/or registered student organizations
that allege a violation of the group’s, unit’s, or organization’s
constitution, bylaws, or policies;

3. Complaints between ASMSU and COGS that allege a violation of either
governing body’s constitution, bylaws, or policies.

The Student-Faculty-Staff Hearing Board does not have jurisdiction over
cases involving academic misconduct, except as described in Article 5,
Section I of this document.

C. _Terms of Office._ Student members of the Student-Faculty-Staff
Hearing Board shall serve for two years with the opportunity for
reappointment for one additional two-year term. Faculty and staff
members shall serve for three years, with the opportunity for
reappointment for one additional three-year term. All terms of office
shall begin with the summer semester following appointment.

IV. UNIVERSITY STUDENT APPEALS BOARD

A. _Composition._ The University Student Appeals Board shall be
comprised of two undergraduate students, one graduate student, one staff
member, and two faculty members.

B. _Jurisdiction. _The University Student Appeals Board shall have
appellate jurisdiction over disciplinary decisions arising from
processes outlined in Section I of Article 5. The University Student
Appeals Board shall also have original jurisdiction over non-academic
student grievances filed pursuant to Section II of Article 5 to
challenge a University policy or regulation.

C. _Terms of Office. _Student members of the University Student Appeals
Board shall serve for two years with the opportunity for reappointment
for one additional two-year term. Faculty and staff members shall serve
for three years, with the opportunity for reappointment for one
additional three-year term. All terms of office shall begin with the
summer semester following appointment.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
