Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 7: Adjudication of Academic
Cases

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Foreword
    -   Preface
    -   Article 1: Guiding Values and Principles
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 3: Student Records
    -   Article 4: Non-Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Non-Academic Cases
    -   Article 6: Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 7: Adjudication of Academic Cases
    -   Article 8: Regulations, Policies, and Rulings
    -   Article 9: Independent and University-Supported Student
        Publications
    -   Article 10: Office of the Ombudsperson
    -   Article 11: Definitions and Acronyms
    -   Article 12: Procedures for Amending and Revising This Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 7: Adjudication of Academic Cases

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 7: ADJUDICATION OF ACADEMIC CASES


The University undertakes, within the limits of its resources and the
limits imposed by due respect for the professional rights of the
faculty, to supply an appropriate remedy for legitimate student
grievances. The limits of the University’s resources proceed from
factors that, while subject to its influence, are not always subject to
its control.

I. ACADEMIC GRIEVANCES

A. For the purposes of this Article, a grievance is an allegation filed
by a student against a faculty or staff member within the time periods
set forth in Section III.C below.

B. A grievance may (i) allege a violation of any of the academic rights
of students under this document, (ii) challenge an academic evaluation
on the grounds that the evaluation was based entirely or in part upon
factors other than a good faith judgment of the student’s academic
performance, including compliance with applicable professional
standards, or (iii) contest a penalty grade or other disciplinary
sanctions (e.g., written assignments) based on a charge of academic
misconduct.⁶

C. A student who has been dismissed by a college for lack of academic
progress may file a grievance under this section alleging procedural
violations. Students may not file a grievance challenging such a
decision to dismiss on substantive grounds.

D. Where an instructor or a committee has rendered a judgment regarding
a student’s academic performance, that judgment is presumed to be made
in good faith and the grievant bears the burden of proving the contrary,
with the exception of allegations of academic misconduct. In those
cases, the instructor or committee bears the burden of proof.

II. ACADEMIC COMPLAINTS

A. For the purposes of this Article, a complaint is an allegation filed
by a member of the University community against a student within the
time periods set forth in Section III.C below.

B. A complaint may allege academic dishonesty, violation of professional
standards, or falsification of academic or admissions records (“academic
misconduct”).⁷ (See also _Integrity of Scholarships and Grades_ policy.)

III. FILING A REQUEST FOR AN ACADEMIC GRIEVANCE HEARING

A. If problems arise in the relationship between instructor and student,
they should attempt to resolve them in informal, direct discussions. If
the problem remains unresolved, they should consult the unit
administrator. If the problem remains unresolved, the student may file a
request for a grievance hearing. A grievance hearing will not be
scheduled until a good-faith effort to resolve the issue informally has
been made.

B. To file a request for a grievance hearing, the student must submit a
written, signed statement that contains the following information to the
Dean of Undergraduate Studies. In cases of ambiguous jurisdiction, the
appropriate hearing board will be selected by the Dean of Undergraduate
Studies. Anonymous grievances will not be accepted.

1. Student’s name and PID;

2. Student’s local address, phone number, and email address;

3. A detailed explanation of the facts underlying the grievance;

4. The name of the instructor against whom the grievance is being filed
and (where appropriate) the title and number of the course;

5. The date the problem arose;

6. The redress sought to rectify the grievance.

C. Grievances must be filed not later than the middle of the semester
(including summer semester) following the one in which the problem that
is the basis for the grievance first occurred. The middle of the
semester is calculated by the Registrar’s Office and published on the
Academic Calendar. Grievances that are not filed by the deadline will
not be accepted. If either party to a grievance is absent from the
University during that semester, or if other appropriate reasons exist,
an exception to this time limit may be granted by the Dean of
Undergraduate Studies. Exceptions will be granted rarely. If either
party to the grievance leaves the University prior to its resolution,
the grievance may proceed at the discretion of the chair of the hearing
board or the Dean of Undergraduate Studies.

IV. JUDICIAL PROCEDURES

A. The Dean of Undergraduate Studies shall establish hearing board
procedures consistent with this document. A copy of these procedures
shall be filed with the Office of the Ombudsperson. These hearing
procedures shall be reviewed at regular intervals not to exceed five
years.

B. Members of the hearing board pool must receive training as deemed
appropriate by the Dean of Undergraduate Studies _before_ they can serve
on any of the hearing boards described in this section. Delivery of this
training shall be the responsibility of the Dean of Undergraduate
Studies.

C. The adjudication of grievances and complaints should proceed in a
timely manner, as described below.

1. Within five class days of its receipt, the Dean of Undergraduate
Studies shall forward a copy of the request for a complaint/grievance
hearing to the hearing board members and to the respondent.

2. The Dean of Undergraduate Studies shall take necessary precautions to
avoid any conflict of interest on the part of the hearing board’s
members. The Dean of Undergraduate Studies must promptly notify each
party of the names of the hearing board members. Within three days of
that notice, either party may submit a written challenge to the Dean of
Undergraduate Studies seeking to remove any member of the hearing board
for cause. The challenge must explain the cause for removing the hearing
board member.⁸

3. The Dean of Undergraduate Studies shall rule promptly on any
challenge, replace any removed hearing board member from the pool of
hearing board alternates, and promptly forward the name of the new
hearing board member to the parties.

4. Within five class days of being established, the hearing board shall
review the request for a complaint/grievance hearing to determine
whether it meets the requirements established by this Article. If it
does, the chair of the hearing board shall invite a written response
from the respondent. After considering the submitted documents, the
hearing board shall:

a. Accept the request, in whole or in part, and schedule a hearing.

b. Reject the request if the written complaint/grievance does not
contain the information required in Section III.B above.

5. At least five class days prior to the hearing, the Dean of
Undergraduate Studies shall provide the parties with written notice of
the hearing. This notice shall include:

a. The names of the parties;

b. A copy of the request for a complaint/grievance hearing and the
response to it; and

c. The date, time, and place of the hearing.

6. At least three class days before the hearing, the parties shall
provide the Dean of Undergraduate Studies with the names of their
witnesses (if any) and advisor (if any). The Dean of Undergraduate
Studies shall forward this information to both parties before the
hearing.

7. Any amendment to a complaint/grievance must be filed at least five
class days before the hearing.

8. Either party may request, with good cause, that the chair of the
hearing board postpone the hearing. The chair may grant or deny the
request.

9. Each party is expected to appear at the hearing and present his/her
case to the hearing board. If it is not feasible for a party to appear
in person, the hearing board may permit that party to present his/her
case to the hearing board through other available communication channels
(phone, webcam, video conference, etc.).

10. The chair of the hearing board may permit either party to submit a
written statement from a witness to the hearing board and to the
opposing party if the witness is unavailable to testify at the hearing
in person or by another means of communication. The statement must be
submitted at least three class days before the scheduled hearing.

11. Should the respondent fail to appear at a hearing, in person or
through another communication channel, the hearing board may postpone
the hearing if an acceptable excuse for the absence has been offered or
hear the case in the absence of the respondent.  Should the
grievant/complainant fail to appear at a scheduled hearing, in person or
through another communication channel, the hearing board may postpone
the hearing if an acceptable excuse for the absence has been offered, or
dismiss the case.

12. The hearing board shall maintain a collegial atmosphere in hearings.

13. Hearings are closed unless an open hearing is requested by the
student. An open hearing is open to any member of the University
community. The hearing board may close an open hearing to maintain order
or protect the confidentiality of information.

14. Each party may choose to be accompanied to the hearing by an advisor
who must be a member of the University community. The respondent may be
accompanied to the hearing by an attorney who is not a member of the
University community if criminal charges related to the subject matter
of the complaint/grievance are pending against the respondent at the
time of the hearing. If the respondent is charged with a sex offense
related to the subject matter of the grievance/complaint when the
hearing occurs, the complainant may have an attorney present at the
hearing as his/her advisor. The advisor/attorney may be present
throughout the hearing but has no voice in the hearing unless the chair
of the hearing board grants the attorney or advisor a limited voice.⁹

15. Witnesses must be members of the University community, unless the
hearing board determines that they have direct knowledge of the matter
at issue. Witnesses may be present in the hearing only when testifying.
Expert witnesses are generally not allowed. The hearing board may limit
the number of witnesses.

16. During the hearing, each party shall have an opportunity to make an
opening statement, present evidence, question witnesses, ask questions
of the opposing party, present a rebuttal, and present a closing
statement. The chair of the hearing board may set time limits on each
party’s presentation.

D. The hearing board shall render a decision and prepare a written
report of its findings and supporting rationale. The hearing body shall
determine whether each allegation has been supported by a preponderance
of the evidence. As part of its decision, the hearing board shall
determine what, if any, redress or sanction should be implemented by the
appropriate unit administrator (normally, the head of the unit in which
the problem occurred). The chair of the hearing board shall forward
copies of the report to the Dean of Undergraduate Studies who then
forwards it to the parties and the appropriate unit administrator within
three class days of the hearing.

E. Upon receipt of the hearing board’s report, the appropriate unit
administrator shall implement the redress or sanction (other than recess
or dismissal from the University) within five class days. All recipients
of the report are expected to respect the confidentiality of the report.
If an appeal is filed pursuant to Section VII below, any redress or
sanctions imposed will be held in abeyance while the appeal is pending.

F. Either party to a hearing may request reconsideration of a hearing
board’s recommendation within 30 days of the hearing board’s decision on
the basis that new evidence has arisen.

G. At any time during the grievance/complaint hearing process, the
parties may consult with the Office of the Ombudsperson.

V. ACADEMIC DISCIPLINARY HEARINGS

A. In cases in which a complaint is filed against an undergraduate
student for academic misconduct and the student’s dean has requested an
academic disciplinary hearing, the complaint will be forwarded to the
Dean of Undergraduate Studies.

B. Upon receiving a complaint, the Dean of Undergraduate Studies shall
promptly notify the student in writing that he or she has been accused
of academic misconduct and that the student’s dean has requested an
academic disciplinary hearing. The student shall be required to meet
with the Dean of Undergraduate Studies to discuss the alleged academic
misconduct and review the academic disciplinary hearing process. The
Dean of Undergraduate Studies also will inform the student of his or her
right to contest the allegation before the University Academic Integrity
Hearing Board as part of the academic disciplinary hearing process.

C. The student shall have ten class days to request an academic
grievance hearing to contest an allegation of academic misconduct,
including a penalty grade. If the University Academic Integrity Hearing
Board and any subsequent appeals determine that the student did not
commit academic misconduct, the student will not face any additional
sanctions based on that charge.

D. In cases in which the student’s dean has requested an academic
disciplinary hearing for a complaint involving the violation of academic
misconduct, the Dean of Undergraduate Studies will meet with the student
to review the academic disciplinary process. At that meeting, the Dean
of Undergraduate Studies will discuss the allegations and ask the
student to select either a hearing conducted by the Dean of
Undergraduate Studies or by the University Academic Integrity Hearing
Board. If the student chooses to have a Board hearing, the Dean of
Undergraduate Studies will forward the complaint to the chair of the
University Academic Integrity Hearing Board. If the student requests a
hearing with the Dean of Undergraduate Studies, the Dean of
Undergraduate Studies will proceed with the hearing.

E. A student who admits his/her academic misconduct to the Dean of
Undergraduate Studies waives the right to a hearing to contest the
allegation. In such a situation, the Dean of Undergraduate Studies shall
impose an appropriate redress or sanction for the academic misconduct.
The student may appeal the appropriateness of the sanction/redress
imposed to the University Academic Appeal Board.

F. If a student fails to meet with the Dean of Undergraduate Studies
when so required by this Article, the academic misconduct complaint will
be referred to the University Academic Integrity Hearing Board. (See
also _Integrity of Scholarship and Grades Policy_ and _General Student
Regulation 1.00: Protection of Scholarship and Grades_.)

VI. SANCTIONS FOR ACADEMIC MISCONDUCT

The academic disciplinary sanctions imposed on a student should be based
on a consideration of all circumstances in a particular case, including
the student’s prior record of academic misconduct, if any. In addition
to any penalty grades assessed by the instructor, such sanctions may
include one or more of the following:

A. Warning: An official written statement expressing disapproval of the
behavior and notifying the student that it must not recur.

B. Probation:  An official written statement establishing a period of
time for observing and evaluating a student’s conduct and indicating
that further academic misconduct may result in more severe disciplinary
action. This probation may be accompanied by stipulations, including,
but not limited to, restitution, participation in an educational
program, or the loss of specified privileges.

C. Restitution:  A requirement that a student pay for property damages
or losses resulting from acts committed by the student, with the date by
which the restitution must be completed.

D. Disenrollment from a course: If a complaint is based on disruptive
behavior in a specific class, the hearing body may recommend to the
Provost that the student be disenrolled from that course.

E. Recess: A recess is temporary removal from the University or a
department, school, or college for a particular period of time, at the
conclusion of which the student is eligible to apply for readmission. A
recess may also be a conditional recess, in which case the student must
demonstrate that he/she has fulfilled stated conditions prior to
applying for readmission. Only the Dean of Undergraduate Studies may
impose the sanction of recess from the University. Only the dean of the
relevant college may impose the sanction of recess from a
school/college.

F. Dismissal: A dismissal is a removal from the University or a
department/school and college. Only the Dean of Undergraduate Studies
may impose the sanctions of dismissal from the University. Only the dean
of the relevant college may impose the sanction of dismissal from a
school/college. Dismissal does not preclude application for readmission.

G. Other: The student may be required to complete an educational program
or activity or comply with the reasonable conditions of a behavioral
contract.¹⁰

VII. APPEALS TO THE UNIVERSITY ACADEMIC APPEAL BOARD

A. Appeals must be filed with the Dean of Undergraduate Studies within
five class days following the date of the hearing board’s decision and
may challenge the substance of the decision and/or the procedures
employed in the adjudication. Any redress or sanctions imposed will be
held in abeyance while the appeal is pending.

B. Appeals must be in writing and signed by the party filing the appeal
and must specify the basis for appeal in sufficient detail to justify
further proceedings. Presentation of new evidence will normally be
inappropriate at an appeal hearing, unless it constitutes new
information.

C. The Dean of Undergraduate Studies shall take necessary precautions to
avoid any conflict of interest on the part of the University Academic
Appeal Board’s members. The Dean of Undergraduate Studies must promptly
notify each party of the names of the appeal board members and provide
either party with an opportunity to file a written challenge to any
hearing board member for cause.

D. The Chair of the University Academic Appeal Board shall review the
appeal and forward a copy of the appeal to the other party and invite a
written response. After considering the appeal and response, the Board
may:

1. Decide that it does not have jurisdiction and let the decision of the
initial hearing board stand;

2. Direct the initial hearing board to rehear the case or to reconsider
or clarify its decision; or

3. Decide that sufficient reasons exist for an appeal and schedule an
appellate hearing in a timely manner.

E. When the University Academic Appeal Board decides the case in favor
of the grievant and redress is possible, it shall recommend that redress
be provided. The relevant academic dean, after reviewing the decision of
the appeal board, shall implement the redress.

F. The University Academic Appeal Board shall issue findings and
recommendations in a written report that includes its supporting
rationale within ten class days of the appeal hearing. The Appeal Board
may accept or reject the decision of the hearing board or reduce the
sanction imposed by the hearing board. Copies of this report shall be
provided to the Dean of Undergraduate Studies, who will forward the
report to both parties and the relevant academic dean.

_______________
6 Instructors and deans seeking sanctions for academic dishonesty other
than, or in addition to, penalty grades must file a complaint under
Section II.B of this Article.

7 Allegations of falsification of records submitted for admission to the
University are processed through the Office of the Provost to determine
whether the individual’s admission will be rescinded. The Dean of
Undergraduate Studies or the Dean of Graduate Studies (as appropriate)
may decide whether to rescind an applicant’s admission because of
falsification of admissions materials. Such a decision may be appealed
to the Provost within ten calendar days of the decision. Allegations of
falsification of records submitted by a current student for admission to
a school, college, or program are handled through the academic
disciplinary process as allegations of academic misconduct.

8 The standard to be used in ruling on challenges is whether, in light
of the challenged person’s knowledge of the case or personal or
professional relationships with a party or witness, the challenged
person would be able to fairly and impartially hear the case.

9 The chair shall normally grant permission for a student representative
from the undergraduate student defender program to have voice in the
hearing.

10 An academic dean may request additional sanctions only in accordance
with the _Integrity of Scholarships and Grades Policy_.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
