Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 5: Adjudication of Non-Academic
Cases

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Foreword
    -   Preface
    -   Article 1: Guiding Values and Principles
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 3: Student Records
    -   Article 4: Non-Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Non-Academic Cases
    -   Article 6: Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 7: Adjudication of Academic Cases
    -   Article 8: Regulations, Policies, and Rulings
    -   Article 9: Independent and University-Supported Student
        Publications
    -   Article 10: Office of the Ombudsperson
    -   Article 11: Definitions and Acronyms
    -   Article 12: Procedures for Amending and Revising This Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 5: Adjudication of Non-Academic Cases

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 5: ADJUDICATION OF NON-ACADEMIC CASES


I. PERSONAL MISCONDUCT CASES

The following procedures shall govern cases involving alleged acts of
personal misconduct. The procedures contained in this Article apply to
all students at Michigan State University. These procedures do not
govern cases involving academic misconduct, which are governed by
Article 7. The Vice President and the Provost will determine whether a
case involving allegations of both personal misconduct and academic
misconduct will be heard pursuant to Article 5 or Article 7 (or both).

A. _Complaints. _A complaint is defined as an allegation filed under
Section I.B of this Article that a student has violated a University
regulation, ordinance, or policy. Any member of the University community
may file a complaint against a student. Where appropriate, the involved
parties are encouraged to consider a variety of dispute resolution
options, including but not limited to restorative justice, mediation,
and/or conflict coaching, prior to the filing of a formal complaint.

B. _Filing a Complaint._ To file a complaint, a member of the faculty,
staff, or student body must submit a written statement to the Department
of Student Life through its established protocol. The statement must
contain the following information:

1. The specific policy, ordinance, or regulation that has allegedly been
violated;

2. The time, place, and specific description of the alleged violation;

3. The name of the student against whom the complaint is filed (the
“respondent”); and

4. The name of the individual who is filing the complaint (the
“complainant”).

C. _Notice of Complaint._ Upon receipt of a properly formatted
complaint, a designee of the Vice President shall notify the respondent
in writing within five class days that he or she has been accused of
violating a University regulation, ordinance, or policy. The respondent
shall be required to meet with an individual designated by the
Department of Student Life (“administrator”) for the purposes described
in Section D below. The notice of complaint to the respondent shall
include the following:

1. The specific policy, ordinance, or regulation that has allegedly been
violated;

2. The time, place, and specific description of the alleged violation;

3. The name of the individual who is filing the complaint;

4. Notice of the opportunity to review the complaint in person;

5. A list of conflict resolution options and campus resources available
to both parties; and

6. The deadline by which the respondent is required to meet with the
administrator.

D. _Administrative Meeting._

1. The respondent will meet with the administrator, who will advise the
respondent of his/her rights and responsibilities under this document,
review the complaint, and discuss possible resolution options. At that
time, the respondent will be provided with a copy of the complaint and
may admit or deny the alleged violation.

2. If the respondent fails to meet with the administrator or fails to
admit or deny the alleged violation within five class days of meeting
with the administrator, the administrator may take one of the following
actions:

a. Place a hold on the respondent’s registration until the respondent
meets with the administrator.

b. Refer the case to the appropriate hearing board for a formal hearing.

c. Render a decision on the complaint. If the decision of the
administrator does not include a suspension or dismissal, the respondent
may appeal pursuant to Section F below. If the decision of the
administrator includes a suspension or dismissal, the respondent shall
have five class days from the date of the decision to request a formal
hearing before the Student-Faculty-Staff Hearing Board. Such a request
must be consistent with the directions in the decision letter and will
void the administrator’s decision, which will not be shared with the
hearing board that hears the complaint. In the absence of a properly
submitted appeal or hearing request, the administrator’s original
decision will be final, pending any necessary approval and
implementation by the Vice President.

3. A respondent who admits his/her violation waives his or her right to
a hearing on the matter of responsibility. In such a situation, the
respondent may request that the administrator determine the sanction for
the violation or request that the appropriate hearing board determine
the sanction. Where appropriate, the respondent may also express a
desire to participate in another dispute resolution process, either in
lieu of or in addition to the adjudication process outlined in this
Article. If the respondent asks to participate in another dispute
resolution process, the Vice President must approve that request and the
complainant must agree to participate before that process may be
initiated.

4. If the respondent denies the violation, the respondent shall choose
to have the matter heard by an administrator or a hearing body. The
hearing should follow in a timely manner.

E. _Hearing Procedures._

1. At least five class days prior to a hearing, both the complainant and
respondent shall receive written notification of the hearing from the
appropriate hearing body. This notice of hearing shall include:

a. A sufficiently detailed description of the alleged misconduct;

b. The date, time, and location of the hearing;

c. The name(s) of the individual(s) who will conduct the hearing;

d. The names of the complainant’s witnesses and advisor (if known).

2. The hearing body shall take necessary precautions to avoid any
conflict of interest. The complainant and the respondent shall have two
class days from receiving the hearing notice to challenge any hearing
board member or hearing administrator for cause. The standard the chair
of the hearing body shall follow in ruling on challenges for cause is
whether, in light of the challenged person’s knowledge of the case or
personal or professional relationships with the complainant, respondent,
or a witness, the challenged person would be able to hear the case
fairly and impartially. If the challenge is to the chair of the hearing
body or hearing administrator, the challenge shall be decided by the
Vice President.

3. The complainant and respondent shall have two class days from
receiving the hearing notice to provide the hearing body with the names
of his/her witnesses or advisors, if such names are not already listed
on the hearing notice. The complainant and respondent will receive a
second notice containing this information not less than one class day
prior to the hearing.

4. Either the complainant or respondent may request, for good cause,
that the hearing be postponed. The hearing  body may grant or deny such
a request.

5. Hearings under Section I (personal misconduct) of this Article shall
be closed unless both the respondent and complainant agree to an open
hearing. Hearings under Section II (non-academic student grievances) of
this Article shall be closed, unless the complainant requests an open
hearing. In either circumstance, the hearing body may close an open
hearing at any time to maintain order or protect the confidentiality of
information.³ An open hearing is open to any member of the University
community.

6. The complainant and respondent are expected to appear at the hearing
to present their cases. If appearance in person is not feasible, the
hearing body may permit either party to present his/her case through
other communication channels (phone, webcam, video conference, etc.). If
the complainant fails to appear, the hearing body may either postpone
the hearing or dismiss the case. If the respondent fails to appear, the
hearing body may either postpone the hearing or hear the case in the
respondent’s absence. The respondent’s failure to appear shall not mean
the respondent is presumed to have committed the violation in the
complaint.

7. The complainant and respondent shall be entitled to:

a. Receive a timely hearing.

b. Call witnesses on their behalf. Witnesses must be members of the
University community, unless the hearing body determines that the
witness has direct knowledge of the facts pertaining to the matter at
issue. Witnesses may be present in the hearing only when testifying.
Witnesses may submit written statements to the hearing body in lieu of
testifying only with the express permission of the hearing body. Expert
or character witnesses are not allowed, except as deemed necessary by
the hearing body. The hearing body may limit the number of witnesses.

c. Submit information in support of their positions.

d. Be accompanied to the hearing by an advisor, who must be a member of
the University community. If criminal charges related to the alleged
violation are pending, the respondent may have an attorney who is not a
member of the University community at the hearing as his/her advisor. If
the respondent is criminally charged with a sex offense related to the
alleged violation when the hearing occurs, the complainant may also have
an attorney present at the hearing as his/her advisor.

The advisor or attorney may be present throughout the hearing but has no
voice in the hearing unless the chair of the hearing body grants the
attorney or advisor permission to have a limited voice.⁴

e. Question any witness who appears at the hearing.

8. The hearing body shall determine whether each allegation has been
supported by a preponderance of the evidence. If an allegation is not
supported by a preponderance of the evidence, the respondent shall be
found “not responsible” for that allegation. If the allegation is
supported by a preponderance of the evidence, the hearing body may
impose one or more of the sanctions listed in Section H of this Article.

9. The hearing body shall prepare and deliver a written decision within
five class days of the hearing. The report shall include the rationale
for the decision and notification of the right to appeal. A copy of the
report shall be provided to the complaint and respondent, who will be
required to maintain the confidentiality of the document to the extent
permitted by law.

F. _Appeals._

1. The University Student Appeals Board has jurisdiction over all
appeals of decisions made by a hearing body under this Article.

2. A respondent may appeal an adverse decision on the basis that the
information presented does not support the decision reached by the
hearing body or that the sanction recommended is incommensurate with the
seriousness of the offense.

3. Either the complainant or respondent may appeal on the basis that
applicable procedures were not followed or there was a conflict of
interest involving a member of the hearing body.

4. A written appeal must be filed as directed in the decision letter
within five class days after the date on which the decision was sent to
the complainant and respondent. Any sanctions imposed will be held in
abeyance while the appeal is pending.

5. The University Student Appeals Board shall take necessary precautions
to avoid any conflict of interest on the part of its members. Upon
receipt of the appeal, the complainant and respondent shall be provided
with the names of the members of the University Student Appeals Board.
Both the complainant and respondent shall have two class days from
receiving such notice to challenge any member for cause.

6. The University Student Appeals Board shall review the case and the
procedures used, request additional information if needed, and then do
one of the following:

a. Reject the appeal for lack of jurisdiction.

b. Affirm or reverse the original decision.

c. Direct the original hearing body to rehear the case or to reconsider
or clarify its decision.

d. Conduct a hearing of its own from which the University Student
Appeals Board may affirm, reverse, or modify the original decision.

7. The University Student Appeals Board shall issue a written decision,
including the rationale for its decision, within ten class days of
convening to consider the appeal or conducting a hearing. A copy of the
decision shall be provided to the complainant and respondent, who will
be required to maintain the confidentiality of the document to the
extent permitted by law. Except in cases where a suspension or dismissal
is recommended, the decision of the University Student Appeals Board is
final and shall be effective immediately.

8. Decisions of the University Student Appeals Board resulting in a
suspension or dismissal may be appealed by either the complainant or
respondent to the Vice President on the basis that a finding of
responsibility is not supported by the information presented or that the
penalty is incommensurate with the seriousness of the offense.

9. Decisions resulting in a suspension or dismissal that are not
appealed will be forwarded to the Vice President for approval and
implementation.

G. _Requests for Reconsideration._ Each hearing body shall allow a
complainant or respondent to request reconsideration of a case within 30
calendar days of its decision, if either party can demonstrate that new
information has arisen. An exception to the 30-day time limit may be
granted by the appropriate hearing body only upon a showing of good
cause.

H. _Sanctions for Personal Misconduct._ Disciplinary sanctions imposed
should be based on a consideration of all circumstances in a particular
case, including a student’s prior record of misconduct, if any. Such
sanctions may include any one or more of the following:

1. Warning: An official written statement expressing disapproval of the
behavior and notifying the student it must  not occur again.

2. Probation: An official written statement establishing a period of
time for observing and evaluating a student’s conduct and indicating
that any additional violations may result in more severe disciplinary
action. This period may be accompanied by stipulations, including but
not limited to restitution, participation in an educational program, or
loss of specified University privileges.

3. Restitution: A requirement that a student pay for property damages or
losses resulting from acts committed by the student, with the date by
which the restitution must be completed.

4. Change of residence: The student shall be required to move from his
or her current on-campus residence, either to an off-campus location or
to another location within the University housing system.

5. Other: The student may be required to complete an educational program
or activity or comply with the reasonable conditions of a behavioral
contract.

6. Disenrollment from a course: If the complaint is based on disruptive
behavior in a specific class, the hearing body may recommend to the
Provost that the student be disenrolled from that course.

7. Suspension: A suspension is temporary removal from the University for
a particular period of time, at the conclusion of which the student is
eligible to apply for readmission. A suspension may also be a
conditional suspension, in which case the student must demonstrate that
he/she has fulfilled stated conditions prior to applying for
readmission. Only the Vice President may impose the sanction of
suspension from the University.

8. Dismissal: A dismissal is a permanent removal from the University.
Only the Vice President or Provost may impose the sanction of dismissal
from the University.

I. _Urgent Disciplinary Cases._ If the Vice President is presented with
credible information that a student’s continued presence at the
University poses a clear and present danger to the health or safety of
persons or property, the Vice President may temporarily suspend a
student from the University. Before temporarily suspending a student,
the Vice President will make a reasonable attempt to notify the student
of the potential interim suspension and offer the student an opportunity
to present information that he/she does not pose a threat to persons or
property.

The interim suspension shall not preclude, render irrelevant, or
predetermine the outcome of subsequent disciplinary action relating to
conduct on which the interim suspension is based. Nor shall an interim
suspension create a presumption that the respondent violated University
policy. Students placed on interim suspension may petition for
reinstatement at any time, with the following guidelines.

1. Such petitions will be considered by either the Vice President or the
Provost as requested by the petitioner.

2. Within five class days after receipt of a student’s petition, the
Vice President or the Provost shall meet with the student for the sole
purpose of deciding whether to continue the interim suspension or grant
reinstatement.

3. The outcome of the meeting shall not preclude, render irrelevant, or
predetermine the outcome of subsequent disciplinary action.

Students placed on interim suspension shall face disciplinary action for
the underlying conduct pursuant to this Article, regardless of where the
conduct occurred.

II. NON-ACADEMIC STUDENT GRIEVANCES.

Any student may file a grievance against a registered student
organization, student governing group, or University employee alleging a
violation of this document or a violation of the student group’s
constitution, bylaws, or policies. Any student may also file a grievance
pursuant to this section to challenge a University policy or regulation
as being inconsistent with the guidelines established in this document.
Such grievances should be filed in writing with the Vice President
pursuant to the established procedure.

A. _Informal Resolution._ Prior to filing a student grievance, the
grievant should first attempt to resolve the grievance informally.
Informal resolutions may include involvement of the student
organization’s advisor or another University employee, or alternative
forms of dispute resolution (e.g., restorative justice, mediation).

B. _Jurisdictional Findings._ The Vice President shall review the
grievance and forward it to the appropriate hearing board to determine
whether it has jurisdiction to hear the case. The hearing board shall
then forward a copy of the grievance to the respondent and invite a
written response. After considering all submitted information, the
hearing board may:

1. Schedule a hearing.

2. Reject the request for lack of jurisdiction and provide a written
explanation for that decision.

3. Invite all parties to meet with the hearing board for an informal
discussion of the issues. Such a  discussion shall not preclude a
subsequent hearing.

C. _Hearing Procedures._

1. At least five class days prior to a hearing, the parties shall
receive written notification of the hearing from the appropriate hearing
board. This notice of hearing shall include:

a. The date, time, and location of the hearing;

b. The names of the hearing board members; and

c. The names of the parties’ witnesses and advisors (if known).

2. Both the respondent and grievant shall have two class days from
receiving the hearing notice to challenge any hearing board members for
cause. The standard the chair of the hearing body shall follow in ruling
on challenges for cause is whether, in light of the challenged person’s
knowledge of the case or professional relationships with the
complainant, respondent, or a witness, the challenged person would be
able to hear the case fairly and impartially. If the challenge is to the
chair of the hearing body, the challenge shall be decided by the Vice
President.

3. The parties shall have two class days from receiving the hearing
notice to provide the chair of the hearing body with the names of their
witnesses and advisors, if such names are not already listed on the
hearing notice. Both parties will receive a second notice containing
this information no less than one class day prior to the hearing.

4. Either party may request, for good cause, that the hearing be
postponed. The chair of the hearing body may grant or deny such a
request.

5. The hearing shall be open unless the hearing body determines that the
hearing should be closed to protect the confidentiality of information.
An open hearing is open to any member of the University community. The
hearing body may close an open hearing at any time to maintain order or
protect the confidentiality of information.

6. Both parties are expected to appear at the hearing to present their
cases. If appearance in person is not feasible, the hearing body may
permit either party to present its case through other communication
channels (phone, webcam, video conference, etc.). If the grievant fails
to appear, the hearing body may either postpone the hearing or dismiss
the case. If the respondent fails to appear, the hearing body may either
postpone the hearing or hear the case in the respondent’s absence. The
respondent’s failure to appear shall not result in any presumption
favoring the grievant.

7. Both parties shall be entitled to:

a. Receive a timely hearing.

b. Call witnesses on their behalf. Witnesses must be members of the
University community, unless the hearing board determines that
non-members have direct knowledge of the matter at issue. Witnesses may
be present in the hearing only when testifying. Witnesses may submit
written statements to the hearing body in lieu of testifying only with
the written permission of the chair of the hearing body. Expert
witnesses are generally not allowed. The hearing body may limit the
number of witnesses.

c. Submit information in support of their positions.

d. Be accompanied by an advisor, who must be a member of the University
community. The advisor may be present throughout the hearing but has no
voice in the hearing unless the chair of the hearing body grants the
advisor permission to have a limited voice in the hearing.⁵

e. Question any witness who appears at the hearing.

8. The hearing body shall determine whether the allegation has been
supported by a preponderance of the evidence. If the allegation is not
supported by a preponderance of the evidence, the grievance shall be
decided in favor of the respondent. If the allegation is supported by a
preponderance of the evidence, the hearing body may impose one or more
of the sanctions listed in Section D below.

9. The hearing body shall prepare a written report within five class
days of the hearing. The report shall include the rationale for the
hearing body’s decision and notification of the right to appeal. The
hearing body will send a copy of its report to both parties, who will be
required to maintain the confidentiality of the document to the extent
permissible by law.

D. _Sanctions and Other Actions._

1. With respect to a registered student organization or student
governing group:

a. Warning: An official written statement expressing disapproval of the
behavior and notifying the respondent it must not recur.

b. Probation: An official written statement establishing a period of
time for observing and evaluating a student group’s conduct and
indicating that further violations may result in more severe
consequences. This probation may be accompanied by conditions.

c. Revocation of privileges for a registered student organization or
student governing group.

d. Revocation of registration of a student organization.

e. Completion of an educational program or an activity.

f. A formal recommendation to the organization or group to correct the
action, policy, or regulation in question.

2. With respect to an employee: A formal recommendation to the
appropriate administrator to address the employee’s action.

3. With respect to a University policy or regulation: A formal
recommendation to the appropriate administrator to correct or revise the
policy or regulation in question.

E. _Appeals._ Either party may appeal the decision of the hearing board
on the basis that (i) the information presented does not support the
decision reached by the hearing board, (ii) the information presented
does not support the sanction imposed or recommended by the hearing
board, or (iii) the procedures described above for adjudicating the case
were not followed. A written appeal must be filed with the chair of the
University Student Appeals Board within five class days after the
hearing board’s report has been sent to the parties. Any sanctions
imposed will be held in abeyance while the appeal is pending.

F. _Temporary Restraining Actions._

1. The codes of operation for student judiciaries described in Article 4
of this document shall include provisions for expedited consideration of
urgent cases in which a restraining action is sought because (i) a group
action allegedly threatens immediate and irreparable harm through action
contrary to the constitution of any undergraduate or graduate student
governing group within the judiciary’s jurisdiction; or (ii) a
regulation or administrative decision allegedly threatens immediate and
irreparable harm through infringement of rights defined by this
document.

2. Upon receipt of such a request, the relevant hearing board shall
conduct a preliminary review to determine whether a temporary
restraining action is appropriate. This review should include
opportunity for both the grievant and the respondent to present
information, either in writing or in person at the discretion of the
hearing board. The purpose of the review is to consider the nature and
potential extent of irreparable harm and other alternatives to remedy
the situation. The review shall not preclude, render irrelevant, or
predetermine the outcome of the ultimate decision of the hearing board
on the grievance in question.

3. If the hearing board decides to take a temporary restraining action,
the appropriate individual, group, or administrative unit shall be
required to postpone or withdraw the action in question pending a
hearing on the merits of the grievance by the appropriate hearing board.

4. The hearing board shall make every reasonable effort to meet whatever
exigencies of time may exist in such a case. If necessary, the hearing
board may announce its decision regarding a temporary action without a
written statement of its reasons, provided that such a statement of its
reasons shall be made available to the parties as soon as is reasonably
possible.

_______________
3 The hearing bodies described in this document should refer to
University policies and applicable laws regarding confidentiality of
information.

4 The chair or hearing administrator shall normally grant permission for
a student representative from the Student Rights Advocates program to
have voice in the hearing.

5 The chair shall normally grant permission for a student representative
from the Student Rights Advocates program to have voice in the hearing.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
