Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 12: Procedures for Amending and
Revising This Document

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Foreword
    -   Preface
    -   Article 1: Guiding Values and Principles
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 3: Student Records
    -   Article 4: Non-Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Non-Academic Cases
    -   Article 6: Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 7: Adjudication of Academic Cases
    -   Article 8: Regulations, Policies, and Rulings
    -   Article 9: Independent and University-Supported Student
        Publications
    -   Article 10: Office of the Ombudsperson
    -   Article 11: Definitions and Acronyms
    -   Article 12: Procedures for Amending and Revising This Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 12: Procedures for Amending and Revising This Document

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 12: PROCEDURES FOR AMENDING AND REVISING THIS DOCUMENT


This document may be amended and revised according to the following
procedures.

I. The University Committee on Student Affairs shall review this
document at least once every five years.

II. Any member of the University community and any constituent body of
the University may propose amendments to this document by forwarding
them to the University Committee on Student Affairs.

III. The University Committee on Student Affairs shall review any such
proposals. It may approve, reject, or amend the proposal.

IV. If the University Committee on Student Affairs approves the
proposal, it shall forward the proposal to ASMSU and COGS. ASMSU and
COGS shall review the proposal. Each may approve or reject it.

V. If either ASMSU or COGS rejects the proposal, it shall submit a
written explanation of the rejection to the University Committee on
Student Affairs. This explanation may include suggestions for alteration
of the proposal.

VI. If ASMSU and COGS both approve the proposal, it shall be returned to
the Chairperson of the University Committee on Student Affairs for
presentation to the University Council.

VII. The University Council shall review the proposal and either approve
or reject it in accordance with the Bylaws for Academic Governance. If
it rejects the proposal, the University Council shall return the
proposal to the University Committee on Student Affairs, ASMSU, and
COGS, along with a written explanation for the rejection. This
explanation may include suggestions for alteration of the proposal. If
it approves the proposal, the University Council shall forward the
proposal to the President who shall submit it to the Board of Trustees
for action.

VIII. The Board of Trustees shall review the proposal. If the Board
rejects the proposal, the Board shall return the proposal to University
Council with an explanation. If the Board approves the proposal, the
amendment shall take immediate effect, unless the Board specifies
another effective date.

IX. The University community shall be promptly informed of all action
taken on proposed amendments to this document.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
