Spartan Life Student Handbook - Foreword

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Foreword
    -   Preface
    -   Article 1: Guiding Values and Principles
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 3: Student Records
    -   Article 4: Non-Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Non-Academic Cases
    -   Article 6: Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 7: Adjudication of Academic Cases
    -   Article 8: Regulations, Policies, and Rulings
    -   Article 9: Independent and University-Supported Student
        Publications
    -   Article 10: Office of the Ombudsperson
    -   Article 11: Definitions and Acronyms
    -   Article 12: Procedures for Amending and Revising This Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Foreword

[Click here to print this page]



FOREWORD


The foreword is not a part of the document that follows. It supplies,
however, a necessary perspective for interpreting the document,
originally named _Academic Freedom for Students at Michigan State
University_.

Student rights and responsibilities at Michigan State University must be
understood against the social and historical background of the
University itself.

When, more than 150 years ago, the people of Michigan established this
institution on the land-grant principle, they framed a new conception of
the role of the university in American life. A land-grant university is
a trusteeship of intellect in the service of society. It gathers
society’s creative and critical powers and uses them to advance the
common good and to solve fundamental problems.

That is the special character that has caused the land-grant university
to become one of the great transforming agencies of the American scene.
When it honors its commission, it acts not for the sake of the academic
community, but for the sake of society beyond the academy. All members
of the academic community — trustees, administrators, faculty, staff and
students — enact a trust of which society beyond the University is the
proper beneficiary.

The real significance of this document, as we believe, is not that
students have acquired rights, but that they have explicitly been made
party to our social trust. The responsibility which lies upon the
trustees, the administration, and the faculty continues. They remain
guardians of the University, charged with preserving in it the genius of
scholarship and the conditions of inquiry which society has entrusted to
their care.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
