Spartan Life Student Handbook - Temporary Structures, Erection of

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
            -   Temporary Structures, Erection of
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Signs and Structures

> Temporary Structures, Erection of

[Click here to print this page]



TEMPORARY STRUCTURES, ERECTION OF


(Administrative Ruling)

A. In accordance with constitutional rights of freedom of expression,
symbolic structures representing constitutionally protected expression
may be erected by students, student groups and registered student
organizations in the area lying between the Red Cedar River, the
International Students Center, Erickson Hall and Wells Hall in
accordance with this administrative ruling.

B. Registration for a permit shall be initiated in the Office of the
Vice President for Student Affairs and Services (Student Life Office)
during normal business hours on forms provided by that office. Permits
for the erection of such temporary structures shall be issued after
proper registration on a first-come first-served basis unless it is
determined that the approval would result in interference with the
public health and/or public safety or in unreasonable interference with
the operations and/or use of university buildings or grounds. The
duration of a permit shall not exceed fourteen (14) consecutive days.
Permits may be renewed for additional periods of fourteen (14) days upon
renewal of registration, provided that there has been no breach of the
terms of the permit, the number of registrants who can be accommodated
in the area is not exceeded and there are no other registrants waiting
to use the area.

C. Individuals who are issued permits shall abide by the following
terms:

1. Symbolic structures shall be erected only within the above-described
area and restricted to the boundaries indicated on the attached map.
(Available in 101 Student Services Building.)

2. Symbolic structures shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet at
the base, eight (8) feet in height, nor be located less than twenty-four
(24) feet from any other structure.

3. Symbolic structures shall not be inhabited, slept in, camped in or
used as shelters.

4. Persons to whom permits have been granted (permit holders) shall be
personally responsible for any symbolic structure erected.

5. Permit holders shall maintain the structure and immediately
surrounding area in such manner and by such means as will leave the area
unimpaired and free from trash, garbage and litter.

6. Signs, posters, placards, and banners shall not be attached to any
trees, shrubs or buildings. Symbolic structures shall not be affixed to
the grounds or any trees, shrubs or buildings.

7. Individuals who have erected structures or directed the erection of
structures are responsible for and liable to the University for the
costs of removal, storage or other disposition of any structure which is
impounded by the University for violation of any of these guidelines.

8. Violation of the terms of any permit by a permit holder may result in
prosecution and/or penalties as provided in Ordinance No. 28.

D. Any permit may be revoked or modified if the activities of the
participants interfere with the public health and/or safety or
unreasonably interfere with the operations or use of University
buildings or grounds or if the terms and conditions of the permit are
violated.

E. Every effort will be made to complete the processing of the
registration for a permit expeditiously but not later than three (3)
class days.

-   Secretary of the Board of Trustees

-   Vice President for Student Affairs and Services

-   Vice President for Finance and Operations

-   November 11, 1990
-   _http://trustees.msu.edu/ordinances/ordinances_sec28.html_

Information regarding permission to erect A-frames and sandwich boards
outside of campus buildings is available in the Student Life Office, 101
Student Services Building. Size limit is 3′ x 5′.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
