Spartan Life Student Handbook - Public Eateries

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
        -   Public Eateries
        -   Residence Hall Dining
        -   Snacks and Quick Meals
        -   Spartan Cash
        -   MSU Dairy Store
        -   MSU Student Food Bank
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Food

> Public Eateries

[Click here to print this page]



PUBLIC EATERIES


RESIDENTIAL DINING HALLS, (517) 884-0660, _www.eatatstate.com._ No
matter where you live, work, study, or play, a residential dining hall
is nearby. MSU’s award-winning Culinary Services team provides culinary
excellence from 7:00 a.m. to midnight, seven days a week in each
Neighborhood. Join us for a meal in our 9 residential dining halls
including the recently renovated The Edge at Akers, Heritage Commons at
Landon, Brody Square, South Pointe at Case, The Vista at Shaw and the
award-winning The Gallery at Snyder/Phillips. With made-to-order,
healthy fresh dining prepared by a dedicated staff led by 15 chefs, you
are sure to eat well on campus no matter what you crave. In a hurry?
Grab takeout from any dining hall with a Combo-X-Change swipe.

SPARTY’S, (517) 355-4550, _www.eatatstate.com/spartys_. Visit us at one
of our 21 Sparty’s Express, Refresh or Cafe coffee shops and convenience
stores on campus. Sparty’s Express offers Spartan Spirit Coffee and
convenience items for when you’re on the go. Sparty’s Refresh locations
have Spartan Spirit Coffee, hot and cold specialty drinks and
convenience items. Sparty’s Cafes offer made-to-order grill items or
pizza, in addition to Spartan Spirit Coffee, specialty drinks and
convenience. Combo-X-Change is accepted at all Sparty’s locations.

SPARTY’S MARKET, (517) 355-4450, _www.eatatstate.com/spartys._ Sparty’s
Market is an exciting, new urban, grocery shopping experience for the
MSU campus community. Sparty’s Market will serve the new single family
apartments adjacent to the market, the office staff within 1855 Place,
and the students, faculty and staff of the MSU community and surrounding
neighborhoods. Providing food that is sourced locally across Michigan as
well as nationally, the market proudly delivers fresh selections and
daily meal offerings from our chefs serviced hot from the grill or cold
from the deli.

EAT AT STATE ON-THE-GO FOOD TRUCK, (517) 355-8248,
_www.eatatstate.com/foodtruck._ Conveniently parked on campus for lunch,
visit the Eat at State ON-THE-GO food truck for portable, local and
seasonal entrees, drinks and sides. Try the award-winning MSU’s own
Smoked Cheddar Cheeseburger or other delicious entrees featuring local
products. The food truck accepts cash, credit and debit cards, Spartan
Cash, Eat at State Bucks and Combo-X-Change. Visit
_www.eatatstate.com/foodtruck_ for menus, locations and daily specials.

CROSSROADS FOOD COURT in the International Center features Panda
Express, Subway, Sparty’s Refresh, Woody’s Oasis, and UP Pizzeria at
Crossroads accepting Combo-X-Change.

MSU UNION offers Biggby Coffee, MSU Dairy Store, Sparty’s Express and
the Union Food Court, featuring Union Pizzeria with hot, fresh and tasty
pizzas, breadsticks, salads and more; Serrano’s southwestern fare; and
Union Deli with soups, salads and sandwiches. All three Union Food Court
locations accept Combo-X-Change. The MSU Union Food Court, featuring
Serrano’s, Union Deli and Union Pizzeria, offers late night
all-you-care-to-eat dining from 8:00 p.m. – midnight.

STARBUCKS, (517) 884-6727, is located at Wells Hall, Broad Business
College, and 1855 Place as well as a Proudly Serving Starbucks locations
at Broad Art Museum, offering freshly brewed coffees, handcrafted
espresso beverages, Frappuccino blended beverages, Teavana teas and
more. Bakery, warm breakfast and lunch items are available. Visit
_www.eatatstate.com/content/starbucks_for specific location hours.

THE STATE ROOM RESTAURANT AND LOUNGE INSIDE THE KELLOGG CENTER, adding a
delicious edge to the Michigan State University Spartan experience, the
State Room features some of the finest dining in the Greater Lansing
Area. Our menus are changed seasonally to reflect the best local
ingredients available, and our extensive wine list has earned the State
Room Wine Spectator’s “Best Award of Excellence” award several years in
a row. We also have several private dining rooms available, perfect for
your next meeting or social gathering. Reservations: (517) 432-5049,
_kelloggcenter.com/stateroomrestaurant._

Restaurant Hours:

Monday – Saturday 6:30 a.m. – 10:00 p.m. (Closed between 3:00 p.m. –
5:00 p.m.)

Sunday 6:30 a.m. – 9:00 p.m. (Brunch buffet 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m.)
(Closed between 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m.)

Lounge Hours:

Monday – Saturday 6:30 a.m. – 11:00 p.m.

Sunday 6:30 a.m. – 10:00 p.m.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
