Spartan Life Student Handbook - Residence Hall Dining

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
        -   Public Eateries
        -   Residence Hall Dining
        -   Snacks and Quick Meals
        -   Spartan Cash
        -   MSU Dairy Store
        -   MSU Student Food Bank
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Food

> Residence Hall Dining

[Click here to print this page]



RESIDENCE HALL DINING


No matter where you live, work, study or play, one of our 10 residential
dining halls is nearby. MSU’s award-winning Culinary Services team
provides our residents with culinary excellence from 7:00 a.m. to
midnight, seven days a week in each Neighborhood. With made-to-order,
healthy fresh dining in our residential dining halls including the
recently renovated Heritage Commons at Landon, Brody Square, South
Pointe at Case, The Vista at Shaw and the award-winning The Gallery at
Snyder/Phillips, you are sure to eat well on campus no matter what you
crave. Our flexible dining plans meet today’s students’ lifestyles,
including take out options at all dining halls from 11:00 a.m. to 2:00
p.m., Monday through Friday.

Our professional dining staff is available to assist you in finding menu
options that fit your needs, including vegetarian, vegan and
allergy-friendly offerings. If you have dietary restrictions due to
health concerns, food allergies or religious observances, you are
encouraged to meet with and develop a relationship with our registered
dietitian, executive chefs or dining hall managers to discuss options.
Kosher cuisine is available at Wilson Dining Hall and Brody Square and
halal foods are featured at Riverwalk Market at Owen Hall and Holmes
Dining Hall. All of our residential dining hall menus will be marked
with food labels for easy identification. For more information on menus
and nutritional information, visit _www.eata__tstate.com. _

ON-CAMPUS STUDENT DINING PLANS
Dining plans for students living on campus support the lifestyles of
today’s students, offering access to meals, snacks and drinks 7:00 a.m.
to midnight, daily. (Residential dining plans are pre-arranged through
student housing contracts.)

DineOn Platinum. Unlimited meals at any residential dining hall with
$300 Spartan Cash and eight guest meal passes. Includes the use of one
Combo-X-Change per day, Monday-Friday.

DineOn Gold. Unlimited meals at any residential dining hall with $150
Spartan Cash and four guest meal passes. Includes the use of one
Combo-X-Change per day, Monday-Friday.

Dineon Silver. Unlimited meals at any residential dining hall. Includes
the use of one Combo-X-Change per day, Monday-Friday.

OFF-CAMPUS STUDENT DINING PLANS
Dining plans for students living off campus and students living on
campus in University Apartments, VanHoosen or Williams Hall. Tired of
doing the dishes or living off of PB&J sandwiches? Choose from the
following affordable meal plans:

-   DineOn 175 (175 meals), DineOn 125 (125 meals), DineOn 100 (100
    meals), DineOn 50 (50 meals) and DineOn 25 (25 meals).
    -   DineOn Campus – Use meal accesses at any of the residential
        dining halls.
    -   DineOn-The-Go – Combo-X-Change (use meal access as a combo) at
        Sparty’s, Union Pizzeria, Serrano’s, Union Deli, Riverwalk
        Market at Owen Hall or the Eat at State ON-THE-GO food truck.
    -   Use meal accesses to bring friends, family and guests to eat
        with you in the dining halls.
    -   Off-campus dining plans don’t expire – you can use your meals as
        long as your MSU ID card is active! Plans are non-refundable.
-   DineOn Platinum, Gold and Silver dining plans are available to
    off-campus students.

Stay connected! Visit _http://www.eatatstate.com_, to gain access to
dining hall menus, news and events, contact information and more.
Feedback is welcome! If at any time you have a question or concern, call
(517) 884-0660 or email info@eatatstate.com and you will hear back in a
timely manner. In addition, like Eat at State on Facebook or follow
@eatatstate on Twitter to hear about special events, giveaways,
promotions and more!

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
