Spartan Life Student Handbook - MSU Student Health Services

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
        -   MSU Student Health Services
            -   Primary Care Clinic
            -   Courtesy Van and Pharmacy Delivery Services
            -   24 Hour Phone Information Nurse: (517) 353-5557
            -   Health Promotion Services
        -   MSU Counseling & Psychiatry Services (CAPS)
        -   MSU HealthTeam
        -   Other On-Campus Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Health Services

> MSU Student Health Services

[Click here to print this page]



MSU STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES


MSU Student Health Services provides outpatient medical services to the
students of MSU. Primary Care and Ancillary Care services are available
year round at Olin Health Center, located on East Circle Drive between
Berkey Hall and the Grand River Avenue parking ramp. Neighborhood
Clinics provide medical care during fall and spring semesters, and are
located in Holden, Hubbard, Brody, and McDonel Halls. For current
information on hours and services, please visit the Olin
website:_ www.olin.msu.edu_ or call (517) 884-6546. MSU Student Health
Services is nationally accredited by the Joint Commission and is staffed
with board certified physicians and other certified health care
professionals.

Student Health services are available to all registered MSU and MSU Law
students and their spouses. Students are encouraged to secure health
insurance coverage. The University will subsidize the first three
medical office visits each year to Student Health Services for students
registered for MSU classes (this does not include Lifelong Education or
MSU Law). Laboratory, x-ray, physical therapy and medical/surgical
procedures, as well as the fourth and subsequent visits, will incur a
charge. MSU will first bill insurance companies and then bill the
patient for charges not paid for by insurance. Students should contact
their insurance company to find out what services will and won’t be
covered at Student Health Services. Patients without insurance coverage
will be asked to pay at the time of the visit. Students interested in
the Student Insurance plan should visit
_https://www.hr.msu.edu/benefits/students/index.html_or contact the MSU
Benefits Office for details, (800) 353-4434 or
SolutionsCenter@hr.msu.edu.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
