Spartan Life Student Handbook - Primary Care Clinic

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
        -   MSU Student Health Services
            -   Primary Care Clinic
            -   Courtesy Van and Pharmacy Delivery Services
            -   24 Hour Phone Information Nurse: (517) 353-5557
            -   Health Promotion Services
        -   MSU Counseling & Psychiatry Services (CAPS)
        -   MSU HealthTeam
        -   Other On-Campus Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Health Services

> MSU Student Health Services

> Primary Care Clinic

[Click here to print this page]



PRIMARY CARE CLINIC


Primary Care services are by appointment and similar to those provided
by a family physician. Care is provided by highly qualified nurses,
Board Certified Nurse Practitioners specializing in adult or family
medicine, Certified Physician Assistants (PA-C), and board-certified
physicians specializing in internal medicine, and/or family practice.
Primary Care services are available at Olin Health Center, as well as in
the Neighborhood Clinics. These clinics are designed to provide
continuous management of both long-term and short-term medical problems,
as well as preventive medical care.

For continuity of care and in order to build personal relationships,
students are encouraged on return visits to request a provider with whom
they feel comfortable. Appointments can often be made for the same day
treatment is requested. To schedule an appointment, call (517) 353-4660.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
