Spartan Life Student Handbook - General Student Regulations

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> General Student Regulations

[Click here to print this page]



GENERAL STUDENT REGULATIONS


*To be implemented January 1, 2018

INTRODUCTION

General student regulations shall be those regulations established
within the University community (students, trustees, administrators,
faculty, and staff) to secure the safety of members of the University
community and University facilities, maintain order, and ensure the
successful operation of the institution. Such regulations shall apply to
all students regardless of class level, place of residence, or group
affiliation as well as to all governing bodies, governing groups, living
groups, and registered student organizations (Article 8, Section I.A
_Student Rights and Responsibilities_ document).

The regulations apply to students and student groups while on the land
governed by the Board of Trustees of Michigan State University, when
students or student groups are engaged in University-sponsored or
student group-sponsored (student governing groups and registered student
organizations) activities off campus, or when the conduct of a student
poses a clear and present danger to the health or safety of person or
property.

*The regulations relating to protection of individuals apply without
reference to where the activity occurs when the alleged misconduct
involves hazing or acts causing or explicitly threatening to cause
serious bodily harm to other individuals.

The regulations relating to scholarship and grades, University functions
and services, and University property apply without reference to where
the activity occurs. Because technology is constantly changing teaching,
learning, and administrative processes, it is understood that the
general principles that govern these regulations should be extended to
apply to new and unanticipated situations.

The University adjudicates alleged violations of these regulations only
after its Student Conduct & Conflict Resolution Office receives a formal
complaint. Any member of the University community may file a complaint
involving the alleged violation of these regulations by a student or
student group. The University through its internal judicial system shall
maintain jurisdiction over these regulations and conduct hearings in
accordance with established University procedures. In the application of
the regulations, it is intended that one be held accountable for conduct
that fails to meet the standard of what a reasonable and prudent person
would or would not have done under similar circumstances.¹

1.00 PROTECTION OF SCHOLARSHIP AND GRADES

The principles of truth and honesty are fundamental to the educational
process and the academic integrity of the University; therefore, no
student shall:

1.01 claim or submit the academic work of another as one’s own.

1.02 procure, provide, accept or use any materials containing questions
or answers to any examination or assignment without proper
authorization.

1.03 complete or attempt to complete any assignment or examination for
another individual without proper authorization.

1.04 allow any examination or assignment to be completed for oneself, in
part or in total, by another without proper authorization.

1.05 alter, tamper with, appropriate, destroy or otherwise interfere
with the research, resources, or other academic work of another person.

1.06 fabricate or falsify data or results.

(See also:_Integrity of Scholarship and Grades_.)

2.00 PROTECTION OF INDIVIDUALS

Physical security and an environment free of harassment are necessary
for individuals if they are to successfully pursue their educational
endeavors and fulfill responsibilities; therefore, no student shall:

2.01 cause or threaten physical harm to another or endanger the physical
safety of another.

2.02 engage in sexual misconduct as defined by University policy.²

2.03 engage in domestic violence or dating violence as defined by
University policy.

2.04 continuously or persistently intimidate another individual so as to
coerce that individual into some action or avoidance of action.

2.05 engage in repeated, unwanted verbal or written communication or
personal contact with another individual, including stalking or
bullying.³

2.06 harass any other individual in violation of the Anti-Discrimination
Policy.

2.07 engage in hazing.

2.08 possess or use any firearms, explosive materials, incendiary device
or other dangerous objects or substance without proper University
authorization.

2.09 obstruct or disrupt the activities of another individual as
protected by law, ordinance, regulation, or policy.

2.10 enter or remain in another individual’s place of residence or work
without permission of that individual or without proper authorization.

2.11 possess or use any drug prohibited by federal or state laws.

2.12 manufacture, produce, sell, exchange, or otherwise distribute any
drug prohibited by federal or state laws.

2.13 possess or use any alcoholic beverages, except as permitted by
state law, University policy, and University ordinance.

2.14 manufacture, produce, sell, furnish, exchange or otherwise
distribute any alcoholic beverages except as permitted by state law,
University policy, and University ordinance.

(See also: _Alcoholic Beverages_; _Anti-Discrimination Policy_;
_Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct_; _Distribution of Literature_;
_Facilities and Services_; _Residence Hall Regulations 1.0, 2.0 and
3.0_; _Residence Hall Room Entry Policy_; and _Safety_.)

3.00 PROTECTION OF REGISTERED STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS AND GOVERNING GROUPS

The functions of student groups serve to extend and provide support for
the learning environment; therefore, no student shall:

3.01 obstruct or disrupt the activities or functions of a group as
protected by law, ordinance, regulation, or policy.

3.02 continuously or persistently intimidate a group so as to coerce
that group into some action or avoidance of action.

3.03 provide false information to a group for the purpose of gaining
membership, service, or privilege.

3.04 represent a group falsely or use the resources of a group without
proper authorization.

(See also: _All-University Events and Activities_; _Anti-Discrimination
Policy_; _Campaigning, Canvassing and Petition Drives_; _Disorderly
Assemblages or Conduct_; _Distribution of Literature_; _Facilities and
Services_; _Non-Disciplinary Judicial Process_; _Residence Hall
Regulations 1.0, 2.0 and 3.0_; and _Safety_.)

4.00 PROTECTION OF PROPERTY

It is important that the property of individuals, student groups, and
the University be protected if the University and the members of the
academic community are to engage in their activities and to effectively
discharge their responsibilities; therefore, no student shall:

4.01 damage, deface, or destroy the property of another person or the
University.

4.02 tamper with or misuse University fire or safety equipment,
including, but not necessarily limited to, fire extinguishers, fire
hoses, and alarm systems.

4.03 copy, take, or use the property of another without proper
authorization.

4.04 remove property or goods from their assigned place without proper
authorization or accept or convey property or goods which have been
procured without proper authorization.

4.05 use any University facility, equipment, or materials except for
their authorized purposes.

4.06 procure, alter, damage, remove, manufacture, or use, any University
key card, lock, password, or other security device without proper
authorization.

4.07 without proper authorization enter or remain in any University
building or on University property.

4.08 place posters, signs, or handbills except on one’s own personal
property or in areas authorized by the University.

4.09 sell or otherwise commercialize intellectual property of the
instructor or University-provided class materials (e.g., notes,
homework, tests) without the written consent of the instructor.

(See also: _Bicycles-Illegal Taking of; Closing Hours; Distribution of
Literature; Facilities and Services; Plant Materials; Residence
Regulations 4.0, 6.0 and 7.0; Residence Hall Room Entry;_ _Signs_.)

5.00 PROTECTION OF UNIVERSITY FUNCTIONS AND SERVICES

Functions, services, and processes of the University must be protected
if the institution is to be effective in discharging its
responsibilities; therefore, no student shall:

5.01 knowingly provide false information to any office, agency, or
individual acting on behalf of the University.

5.02 obstruct, disrupt, or interfere with the functions, services, or
directives of the University, its offices, or its employees (e.g.,
classes, social, cultural, and athletic events, computing services,
registration, housing and food services, governance meetings, and
hearings).

5.03 alter or forge any University document and/or record, including
identification materials, issued or used by the University.

5.04 allow any University equipment, document and/or record, including
identification materials, issued by the University for one’s own use to
be used by another.

5.05 use any University equipment document and/or record for other than
its authorized purpose, including identification materials issued to
another.

5.06 act or represent oneself as an agent of the University (including
the ability to provide University services) unless authorized to do so.

5.07 fail to properly identify oneself or present University-issued
identification when requested to do so by a non-law enforcement
University employee acting in the performance of assigned job
responsibilities or who has a reasonable suspicion that the student may
be involved in the violation of a University policy or regulation.

5.08 sell or make contracts for purchase or delivery of any commercial
merchandise or services for personal profit or gain, or solicit
voluntary contributions for organizations, without proper authorization.

5.09 violate other University policies or regulations, including
University housing policies.

(See also: _Campus Bus Policy; Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct;
Distribution of Literature; Facilities and Services; Housing Policy;
Non-Disciplinary Judicial Process; Records; Residence Hall Regulation
6.0;_ and _Student Identification Cards_.)

HISTORY OF APPROVAL

ORIGINAL DOCUMENT:

-   University Committee on Student Affairs, February 19, 1988
-   Academic Council, January 17, 1989
-   President, to become effective September 1, 1989

REVISIONS:

-   University Committee on Student Affairs, February 13, 2015
-   University Council, March 24, 2015
-   President, to become effective May 18, 2015
-   University Committee on Student Affairs, April 21, 2017 and October
    20, 2017
-   University Council, November 28, 2017
-   President, to become effective January 1, 2018

APPENDIX A: DEFINITIONS

For the purposes of these General Student Regulations, the following
definitions will apply:

Bullying:  An intentional electronic, written, verbal, or physical act,
or a series of acts, directed at another person that is severe,
persistent, or pervasive and has the effect of doing any of the
following:

-   Substantially interfering with a student’s education;
-   Creating a threatening environment; or
-   Substantially disrupting the orderly operation of the University.

Hazing:  Requiring or encouraging any act, whether or not the act is
voluntarily agreed upon, in conjunction with initiation, affiliation
with, continued membership, or participation in any group that causes or
creates a substantial risk of causing mental or physical harm or
humiliation.

Intellectual Property:  Any work or invention that is the result of
creativity, such as a manuscript or design, and can be protected by
statute of legislation, such as patent or copyright. It includes
inventions, discoveries, know-how, show-how, processes, unique
materials, copyrightable works, original data, and other creative or
artistic works. IP also includes the physical embodiment of intellectual
efforts (e.g., models, machines, devices, apparatus, instrumentation,
circuits, computer programs and visualizations, biological materials,
chemicals, and other compositions of matter, plans, and records of
research.)  See
_www.technologies.msu.edu/researchers/patent-copyright-policy_.

University document:  A document created by a unit of the University,
regardless of its form or medium, for the administration, operation, or
governance of the University or a unit of the University.

‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾
¹These regulations shall not be interpreted to abridge First Amendment
rights and the protections of the First Amendment must be carefully
considered in any student conduct complaint involving speech or
expressive conduct.

²Definitions of sexual misconduct, domestic violence, dating violence,
and stalking are included in the Relationship Violence and Sexual
Misconduct Policy.

³Definitions of hazing and bullying are included in Appendix A.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
