Spartan Life Student Handbook - Residence Hall Regulations –
Undergraduate Halls

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Residence Hall Regulations – Undergraduate Halls

[Click here to print this page]



RESIDENCE HALL REGULATIONS – UNDERGRADUATE HALLS


(Student Group Regulation)

The following regulations are established to govern the conduct of
individuals living and visiting in residence halls. They shall apply to
all students regardless of class level, place of residence, or group
affiliation when they are in or around any residence hall.

1.0 INDIVIDUAL RESPONSIBILITIES AND COMMUNITY RIGHTS

The Residence Hall Bill of Rights provides a clear statement of each
individual’s rights within the residence hall community. These rights
are best secured through clear statements of each individual’s
responsibilities.

1.1 No person shall cause or otherwise contribute to unreasonable noise
in residence halls or areas immediately surrounding residence halls.
(Unreasonable noise is that which interferes with, or has the potential
for interfering with the legitimate rights of others.)
1.2 No person shall interfere with attempts of others to study.
1.3 No person shall interfere with attempts of others to sleep during
reasonable and/or posted consideration hours.
1.4 No person shall interfere with the free access of another to and
from his/her own room, suite, apartment, work area, or office in a
residence hall.
1.5 No person shall play any athletic games in a common area of a
residence hall without proper authorization.
1.6 No person shall interfere with the safe or clean environment of
others.
1.7 No person shall allow an animal, bird, or other pet to enter a
residence hall. (Fish and guide dogs are exceptions.)
1.8 No person shall fail to make an effort to discourage another person
from violating a regulation and/or to report a violation of which one
has knowledge.

(See also: _General Student Regulation 2.00_ and _3.00_.)

2.0 SAFETY OF THE INDIVIDUAL AND COMMUNITY

Fundamental to the protection of the individual is the maintenance of an
environment that is physically safe and predictable. As members of a
group, each individual has a special responsibility to ensure that
safety hazards are eliminated, fire equipment is maintained, and fire
procedures established and followed.

2.1 No person shall create, or help to create, a safety hazard.
2.2 No person shall throw or drop anything out of a residence hall
window.
2.3 No person shall possess or use firecrackers, fireworks, firearms, or
other dangerous weapons or explosives. (NOTE: Legal weapons must be
stored at the Department of Police and Public Safety.)
2.4 No person shall possess or use in a residence hall, without proper
authorization, any chemical or other dangerous substance, compound, or
container of such substances, which may injure, molest, or cause damage.
2.5 No person shall set a fire in residence halls or areas immediately
associated with residence halls.
2.6 No person shall falsely report a fire, nor interfere in any way with
emergency services or procedures, nor fail to conform to established
safety regulations.
2.7 No person shall tamper with fire equipment, nor use such equipment
for other than the prevention or control of fire. (Fire equipment shall
include, but not be limited to thermal detectors, fire alarms, fire
extinguishers, fire extinguisher boxes, fire hoses, and any other
fire-fighting devices.)

(See also: _General Student Regulation 2.00, 3.00_ and _4.00_.)

3.0 HARASSMENT AND INTIMIDATION

To succeed personally and academically, an individual must be able to
live free from unnecessary emotional stress caused by others. Physical
or emotional harassment will not be tolerated in a residence hall
community.

3.1 No person shall harass or abuse any other person. (This shall
include, but not be limited to, harassment or abuse based on race,
creed, ethnic origin, sex, age, political persuasion, sexual
orientation, or disability.)
3.2 No person shall exhibit behavior which harms or threatens to harm
another person or another person’s property.
3.3 No person shall abuse, threaten, or harass any residence hall
employee.
3.4 No person shall abuse, threaten, harass, or exhibit behavior that
intimidates any complainant, respondent, counsel, witness, or judiciary
member prior to, during, and after a judicial hearing.

(See also: _General Student Regulation 2.00_ and _3.00_.)

4.0 PERSONAL AND COMMUNITY PROPERTY

The protection of personal property is important to the well being of
the individual. Protection of community property protects the investment
all residents make through the payment of their room and board.

4.1 No person shall tamper with or borrow without permission the
personal property of others.
4.2 No person shall, without proper authorization, remove any property
from its assigned place in a residence hall.
4.3 No person shall damage, deface, or destroy any property.

(See also: _General Student Regulation 4.00_.)

5.0 ALCOHOL

The residence hall community is part of a larger community, and as such,
is not only governed by its own regulations, but by University policies
and state law. The State of Michigan establishes the age at which
alcohol consumption is legal. Furthermore, alcohol may not be consumed
on state land, except by special exception of the body governing the
land, which in this case is the MSU Board of Trustees. Because the
majority of hall residents are under age, the privilege of drinking
alcohol is extended only to those of legal age in their private rooms,
suites, or apartments.

5.1 No person shall possess open alcoholic beverages within a residence
hall, except within the confines of student rooms, suites, or apartments
or at social events approved by the Office of the Vice President for
Student Affairs and Services.
5.2 No person shall organize or participate in a student group event
where alcohol is consumed but not approved for consumption (e.g., floor
party).
5.3 No person shall allow the presence of more than five times the
normal occupancy (excludes over or under assignment) in a student room,
suite, or apartment where alcohol is being consumed.
5.4 No person shall possess or use a common source of alcohol (e.g.,
keg, trash can, etc.), nor shall any person participate in an event
where a common source is present.

(See also: _General Student Regulation 2.00_.)

6.0 IDENTIFICATION OF INDIVIDUALS

Certain privileges are extended to individuals by virtue of their
membership in the residence hall community. In order to protect the
community’s welfare, the integrity of this identification must be
maintained.

6.1 No person shall permit others to use his or her University
identification, including a meal card or room key, for the purpose of
improperly gaining access to a residence hall, a residence hall dining
room, an RHA or hall sponsored event, or use of RHA or hall equipment.
6.2 No person shall use the University identification of another,
including a meal card or room key, for the purpose of improperly gaining
access to a residence hall, a residence hall dining room, or an RHA or
hall sponsored event or use of RHA or hall equipment.
6.3 No person shall refuse to provide his or her name and show
appropriate identification to a staff member performing his or her duty,
upon request.

(See also: _General Student Regulation 3.00, 4.00_ and _5.00_.)

7.0 FOOD SERVICE

Meal times should be an opportunity for residents and their visitors to
dine in a sociable manner without the fear of inappropriate distractions
or interference. The misuse of meal I.D.s or removal of food from the
dining room increases the cost of food service for all residents.

7.1 No person shall initiate or otherwise engage in throwing of food,
utensils, or other objects in any residence hall dining room or housing
facility.
7.2 No person shall, without authorization, remove any food or utensils
from a residence hall dining room.
7.3 No person shall enter a residence hall dining room without proper
authorization.

(See also: _General Student Regulation 2.00, 4.00_ and _5.00_.)

8.0 VISITORS

All members of the residence hall community have some responsibility to
help secure the community’s welfare by communicating to visitors the
expectations established through these regulations.

8.1 No person shall permit a non-resident visitor to remain in or use
the facilities of a residence hall, including one’s residence hall room,
for more than three continuous days during any given week.
8.2 No person shall fail to take responsibility for his or her visitor.
8.3 No person, if a non-resident, shall be a visitor in any residence
hall between the official closing and opening hours without a resident
escort.
8.4 No person shall interfere with the entertaining of a visitor by
another, unless the visitor is infringing upon his or her rights.

-   Residence Halls Association

-   Associated Students of Michigan State University

-   Approved on an interim basis by the Vice President for Student
    Affairs and Services

-   July 13, 1981

-   Amended July 18, 1984

-   Amended August 8, 1988

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
