Spartan Life Student Handbook - Residence Hall Bill of Rights –
Undergraduate and Graduate Halls

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Residence Hall Bill of Rights – Undergraduate and Graduate Halls

[Click here to print this page]



RESIDENCE HALL BILL OF RIGHTS – UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE HALLS


(Student Group Regulation)

Each person, as a resident of Michigan State University residence halls,
possesses certain individual rights and responsibilities which must be
held in high regard. This document is intended to define minimal
expectations of rights and responsibilities of hall residents, in
actualizing their freedoms, without placing constraints upon such rights
of other residents. Each individual has the right to engage in those
physical, educational, and social pursuits that are a necessary part of
his or her university life. However, these rights carry with them a
reciprocal responsibility on the part of the individual to insure those
same rights for other residents.

1. PRIMARY RIGHTS of the individual include:

a. The right to read and study free from undue interference in one’s
room: One of the basic purposes of the University is the dissemination
and application of knowledge. Unreasonable noise and other distractions
inhibit the exercise of this right.
b. The right to sleep, the right to one’s personal belongings, the right
to free access to one’s room and suite facilities, and the right to a
clean environment in which to live: Optimum physical conditions are
essential as they support and reinforce and provide for positive
conditions in which to learn and live.
c. The right for redress of grievances: If the academic and residence
hall communities are to function in the most educationally profitable
manner the right to initiate actions and referrals for impartial and
fair adjudication of grievances is held paramount. In exercising this
right, the student further holds the right to be free from fear of
intimidation, physical and/or emotional harm, and without the imposition
of sanctions apart from due process.

2. SUBORDINATE RIGHTS of the individual are those which should be
protected, but which should not infringe upon the reasonable exercise of
the primary rights defined above. These subordinate rights include:

a. The right to personal privacy: All persons should have freedom from
interference with their personal activities, and should be able to
maintain privacy for other than academic reasons.
b. The right to host visitors: All persons should have the opportunity
to maintain personal contacts and friendships with other persons to
fulfill their needs for socialization. Visitors are to respect the above
stated rights of hall residents and to adhere to all regulations.

Any abuse of these rights is subject to review and action according to
the procedures given in _Michigan State University Student Rights and
Responsibilities_. However, processes of mediation, involving students
and hall staff, should also be considered as means for resolving
conflicts.

Nothing in the Residence Hall Bill of Rights and/or its implementation
shall deny any individual his or her basic rights guaranteed under the
United States Constitution, nor deny other alternatives for redress of
grievances that are available under the individual’s status as a student
and as a citizen of the State of Michigan.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
