College of Arts & Letters
Michigan State University 1. THE FACULTY
1.1.Composition of the Faculty
1.1.1. The regular faculty of the College of Arts and Letters shall consist of all persons appointed in the College under the rules of tenure and holding the rank of professor, associate professor, or assistant professor, or as further defined in the Bylaws for Academic Governance-Michigan State University.
1.1.2. The fixed-term faculty of the College of Arts and Letters shall consist of all persons holding the rank of professor, associate professor, assistant professor, or instructor, but not appointed under the rules of tenure, as defined in the Bylaws for Academic Governance-Michigan State University.
1.1.3 The academic specialist faculty of the College of Arts and Letters shall consist of all persons holding the rank of academic specialist, academic specialist-continuing, or senior academic specialist, but not appointed under the rules of tenure, or as further defined in the Bylaws for Academic Governance-Michigan State University.
1.1.4. Other faculty shall be those persons designated as visiting professors, adjunct professors, or professors emeriti.
1.2.Voting Faculty
1.2.1. The voting faculty in College matters shall consist of all regular College faculty, plus those fixed-term faculty who have served under a full-time appointment in the College for at least three consecutive years and who are engaged in the academic activities of the University, and academic specialists who have served under a full-time appointment in the College for at least three consecutive years and who are engaged in the academic activities of the University. The voting faculty in Department matters shall be determined by those units’ bylaws.
1.2.2. A faculty member jointly appointed in two or more Departments or Colleges may vote only once in a given election. In elections voted upon by two or more units the faculty member shall vote in that unit which has primary responsibility for initiating personnel action, with respect to that faculty member.
1.3.Faculty Meetings
1.3.1. A College meeting shall normally be held at least twice during each academic year. Additional ordinary meetings of the College may be called by the Dean, the College Advisory Council, petition to the Dean by ten percent of the voting faculty of the College, or petition by at

least fifty students enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters as defined in 2.1.2.
1.3.2. Announcement
1.3.2.1. The Dean shall email to each member of the faculty and to each eligible voting student member notice at least one week prior to an ordinary meeting, along with an agenda for the meeting.
1.3.3. Special Meetings
1.3.3.1. Should a situation require immediate action any of those who may call an ordinary meeting may call a special meeting by providing in writing the agenda of the meeting and an appropriate explanation of the situation, delivered electronically via email or in hardcopy to the office or campus mailbox of each qualified voting member of the College at least two working days prior to the meeting. Actions taken at special meetings shall be only those on the agenda described in the notice. Written minutes of a special meeting shall be delivered electronically to the email address or by hardcopy to the office or campus mailbox of each qualified voting member within five working days after that meeting.
1.3.4. Conduct of Meeting
1.3.4.1. Thirty percent of the qualified voting members of the College shall constitute a quorum for the conduct of business of both ordinary and special meetings.
1.3.4.2. The Dean of the College or his/her designate shall preside at all College meetings.
1.3.4.3. Conduct of business at College meetings shall follow the revised Robert’s Rules of Order, except as modified by a vote of the College. A parliamentarian shall be designated for each meeting by the chairperson.
1.3.4.4. An email ballot may be called for any agenda item by a simple majority vote. If a quorum is not present at the meeting then all voting must be by email vote. All email ballots must be sent out, accompanied by the minutes of the meeting, within one week of the meeting and a deadline set for the return of the ballot(s).
1.3.4.5. The secretary of the College Advisory Council, as defined in 3.2.3.1, shall serve as secretary of meetings of the College and shall distribute the minutes of each meeting to all qualified voting members in the College within two weeks after the meeting.
1.3.4.6. In consultation with the Chair of the College Advisory Council, the Dean shall place on the agenda any items concerning matters of policy or position requiring faculty action. Except in

cases of special meetings, only those items that are listed on the agenda that was distributed at least one week in advance of the meeting may be acted on.
1.3.4.7. Items may be placed on the agenda of meetings by the Dean, the College Advisory Council, petition by 10% of the voting faculty of the College, or petition by at least fifty students enrolled in Arts and Letters as defined in 2.1.2.
2. THE STUDENTS
2.1.Student Constituency of the College
2.1.1. The student constituency of the College for the purpose of selecting student representatives from the College to University committees shall be all currently enrolled students who have declared with the Registrar a major or major preference (in the case of lower division students) in an academic program administered in the College. A person who has enrolled for two consecutive semesters may retain student status for one semester when not enrolled, if the person has not been awarded a degree, or enrolled as a degree candidate at another college or university, or been withdrawn or recessed by the University.
2.1.2. Those students who are enrolled as candidates for graduate degrees or as candidates for graduate-professional degrees shall be deemed graduate students.
2.1.3. All other students shall be deemed undergraduate students.
2.1.4. The student constituency for purposes other than that specified above shall be all students who have declared a major or major preference in an academic program of the College.
2.1.5. All students serving on College standing committees; two students selected by each Department, preferably one graduate and one undergraduate, from Department standing committees; and one undergraduate and one graduate student from the degree-granting Interdepartmental and Interdisciplinary Programs shall automatically be voting members at College meetings, except on matters reserved to faculty by the current Bylaws for Academic Governance-Michigan State University.
2.2.Student Participation in Academic Governance
2.2.1. Student participation in College academic governance bodies shall in all cases be the same as faculty participation, except as reserved. In accordance with the Bylaws for Academic Governance-Michigan State University, the reserved matters in which only faculty may participate are:
2.2.1.1. Policy concerning salary, leaves, insurance, retirement and fringe benefits of faculty.

2.2.1.2. Decisions concerning the appointment, salary, reappointment, promotion, tenure or dismissal of individual faculty members.
2.2.1.2.1. Evidence from students regarding the teaching performance of faculty shall be considered in decisions concerning the above matters.
2.2.1.3. Matters affecting the professional responsibility of the faculty to establish and maintain the intellectual authority of the University.
3. COLLEGE ORGANIZATION
The College includes Departments, Interdepartmental and Interdisciplinary Programs, Research Centers, Museums, the Center for Integrative Studies in Arts and Humanities and its Administration.
3.1.Administration of the College
3.1.1. The College’s administrative officers are the Dean, Associate and Assistant Deans, and the Department chairpersons or directors of programs. The duties, responsibilities, and powers of these officers and the procedures for appointment and review of appointment shall be as specified in the Bylaws for Academic Governance-Michigan State University.
3.1.2. The Dean is responsible for the educational, research/creative, and service programs of the College. This responsibility includes budgetary matters, physical facilities and personnel matters in his or her jurisdiction, taking into account the advisory procedures of the College.
3.1.3. The College Advisory Council of the College shall have shared responsibility with the Provost to determine procedures for the selection of the Dean to be nominated by the Provost.
3.1.4. The selection of assistant and associate College administrators to be nominated to the Provost shall be the responsibility of the Dean, who shall consult the College Advisory Council.
3.1.5. The Dean of the College shall be subject to regular review at intervals not to exceed five years.
3.1.5.1. The College Advisory Council shall have shared responsibility with the Provost to determine procedures for the review of the Dean. It is recommended that the procedure developed should include solicitation of faculty input and interviews with the chairpersons and directors by the Provost.
3.1.5.2. There is no limit, other than the limit imposed by the University rules on retirement from administrative positions, on the number of times an individual may be continued in the position of Dean.

3.1.5.3. At any time during the term of office the appointment of a Dean, as Dean, may be terminated either by resignation or by action of the Board of Trustees upon recommendation of the President and Provost.
3.1.6. The Dean shall participate in academic governance as part of his or her administrative responsibility. This participation shall include those responsibilities listed in the Bylaws for Academic Governance-Michigan State University.
3.2.College Advisory Council 3.2.1. Composition
3.2.1.1. To ensure that the over-all academic interests of the College are represented, the College Advisory Council shall be composed of:
3.2.1.1.1. One faculty member from each Department with vote.
3.2.1.1.2. One member selected each year by the elected faculty members of the College Advisory Council from among the College representatives to the Academic Council, who will serve ex officio, without vote.
3.2.1.1.3. The Dean, who may also appoint an Associate or Assistant Dean at his/her discretion. They shall serve ex officio, without vote.
3.2.1.1.4. Two undergraduate students with voting rights, except in the nomination, election, or appointment of a faculty member to College or Council, and the elected Faculty Council.
3.2.1.1.5. Two graduate students with voting rights, except in the nomination, election, or appointment of a faculty member to College or University committees, the College Advisory Council, and the elected Faculty Council.
3.2.2. Functions
3.2.2.1. The College Advisory Council shall serve as a deliberative body for faculty and students to participate in the policy- making of the College.
3.2.2.2. The College Advisory Council shall serve as a deliberative body which recommends policies to the Dean.
3.2.2.3. The College Advisory Council shall establish, as the need arises, a process of faculty review before any action is taken to create, alter, dissolve, discontinue, disband, or downgrade an academic Department, Program, or Center.

3.2.2.4. The College Advisory Council shall act as an agency through which individual faculty or students may initiate action in the academic governance of the College; it may refer such matter to an appropriate College committee, and shall receive reports as required from College representatives to University committees.
3.2.2.5. The College Advisory Council shall advise and consult with the Dean on problems concerning the welfare of the College.
3.2.2.6. The College Advisory Council shall have delegated authority to supervise and conduct all faculty elections at the College level, including the election of College representatives to the Faculty Council of the University.
3.2.2.7. The College Advisory Council shall name replacements to the Faculty Council of the University when an elected faculty representative is unable to serve for a period of one academic semester or more.
3.2.2.8. The College Advisory Council shall have shared responsibility with the Dean in determining the time, date and place of all College faculty meetings.
3.2.2.9. The College Advisory Council shall have shared responsibility with the Dean in preparing the agenda and meetings.
3.2.2.10. The College Advisory Council shall consult with the Dean on the replacement and appointment of Associate and Assistant Deans.
3.2.3. Procedures
3.2.3.1. The College Advisory Council shall determine its own operating rules and procedures and annually elect a chairperson and a secretary from its voting membership at the first meeting of the fall semester.
3.2.3.2. The College Advisory Council shall meet as often as required to perform its duties, but no less than four times in each academic semester, except summer session.
3.2.3.3. Meetings may be called by the Dean, the College Advisory Council chairperson or by petition of at least one-third of the voting members to the College Advisory Council chairperson.
3.2.3.4. The minutes of the College Advisory Council meetings shall be published and distributed to all members of the faculty and the student representatives within ten days of approval.
3.2.4. Elections

3.2.4.1. Elections for the College Advisory Council shall take place in the spring semester.
3.2.4.2. Any member of the regular or fixed-term faculty, or academic specialist of the College shall be eligible for election to the College Advisory Council.3.2.4.3. Any student, as defined in sections 2.1.2. and 2.1.3. of these bylaws, shall be eligible for election to the College Advisory Council.
3.2.4.4. Elected faculty members of the College Advisory Council shall serve two-year terms. No faculty member of the College Advisory Council shall serve more than two consecutive terms.
3.2.4.5. Student representatives shall be elected to the College Advisory Council using the procedures agreed upon by the student constituency.
3.2.4.6. Student members shall serve one-year terms.
3.2.4.7. All terms of office shall commence at the beginning of the fall semester.
3.2.4.8. Any faculty vacancy occurring during a term of office shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term. A vacancy shall occur by resignation or when a College Advisory Council member is absent, or expects to be absent, for a period of two months or more. The replacement shall be selected by the Department of the resigning representative. The replacement is eligible for reelection after the replacement term expires. Such appointed members of the College Advisory Council shall serve without restriction to the number of consecutive terms served.
3.2.4.9. Any student vacancy occurring during a term of office shall be filled as provided for in section 3.2.4.6.
3.3.Standing Committees of the College Advisory Council
3.3.1. The Standing Committees of the College Advisory Council shall be the College Curriculum Committee and the College Graduate Council.
3.3.2. College Curriculum Committee 3.3.2.1. Functions
3.3.2.1.1. The College Curriculum Committee shall review and evaluate College educational policies, including those governing pedagogy and educational objectives, and bring before the College any issues that might, in the opinion of this Committee, require deliberation by the College faculty as a whole.

3.3.2.1.2. The College Curriculum Committee shall serve as the College curriculum committee for all undergraduate courses and programs.
3.3.2.1.3. The College Curriculum Committee shall deal with problems presented to it or issues defined within the Committee as a result of its concern for curricular matters inside and outside the College.
3.3.2.1.4. In consultation with the faculty of the Departments, the College Curriculum Committee shall decide on the establishment and elimination of courses and curricula within the College.
3.3.2.2. Composition
3.3.2.2.1. To ensure representation of the diverse academic interests of the College the College Curriculum Committee shall be composed of:
3.3.2.2.1.1. One voting faculty member selected by each Department offering courses in the College.
3.3.2.2.1.2. Two voting undergraduate student representatives and two voting graduate student representatives.
3.3.2.2.1.3. Ex officio members, without vote, consisting of the Dean and the appropriate Associate or Assistant Dean and any faculty members from the College serving on the University Curriculum Committee.
3.3.2.3. Procedures
3.3.2.3.1. The Committee shall determine its own operating rules and procedures.
3.3.2.3.2. Its chairperson shall be elected from among its members at the first meeting of the academic year. The chairperson shall be elected to serve a one year term.
3.3.2.3.3. The Committee shall meet at least once during each of the fall and spring semesters.
3.3.2.3.4. The Committee shall meet on the call of the chairperson or on petition by half of its members.
3.3.2.3.5. The chairperson shall report the activities of the Committee at the spring meeting of the College.

3.3.2.3.6. The Committee shall report its activities to the College faculty through its minutes and make an annual report to the College Advisory Council.
3.3.2.4. Eligibility
3.3.2.4.1. All voting members of the faculty of the College shall be eligible for election, with the following exceptions:
3.3.2.4.1.1. Members of the College Advisory Council and other standing committees of the College with a remaining term of office longer than six months.
3.3.2.4.1.2. The Dean, Associate and Assistant Deans, and Department chairpersons.
3.3.2.4.1.3. No voting faculty member shall serve more than two consecutive terms.
3.3.2.4.2. Undergraduate majors in Arts and Letters in good academic standing shall be eligible for the undergraduate student seats.
3.3.2.4.3. Graduate students in the College of Arts and Letters in good academic standing shall be eligible for the graduate student seats.
3.3.2.5. Terms of Office
3.3.2.5.1. Voting faculty members shall serve two-year terms, with one-half of the members elected each year.
3.3.2.5.2. The undergraduate and graduate student representatives shall serve one-year terms.
3.3.2.5.3. Terms of office shall commence at the beginning of the fall semester following election.
3.3.2.5.4. A vacancy occurring during a term of office shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term. The replacement of a faculty member shall be made by the Department concerned. The replacement of an undergraduate student or graduate student shall be made by the respective group naming the representative. A vacancy shall occur by resignation or when a committee member expects to be unable to serve for a period of two months or more.
3.3.2.6. Elections
3.3.2.6.1. Each Department offering undergraduate courses in the College of Arts and Letters shall determine its own methods of selecting its representatives.

3.3.2.6.2. The election of faculty representatives shall take place during the spring semester of the academic year under the auspices of the College Advisory Council.
3.3.2.6.3. Undergraduate student members of the College Curriculum Committee shall be chosen in accordance with the Bylaws for Academic Governance-Michigan State University.
3.3.3. College Graduate Council 3.3.3.1. Composition
3.3.3.1.1. To ensure representation of the diverse academic interests of the College, the College Graduate Council shall be composed of:
3.3.3.1.1.1. One faculty representative from each Department or extra-Departmental Program with a graduate degree program.
3.3.3.1.1.2. A representative from the Center for Integrative Studies in Arts and Humanities, ex officio without vote, and one representative without vote from among the degree granting programs of the College that do not offer graduate degrees, both selected by the Dean.
3.3.3.1.1.3. The representatives of the College on the University Graduate Council, ex officio without vote.
3.3.3.1.1.4. The College Associate or Assistant Dean for Graduate Studies and Research. ex officio without vote,
3.3.3.1.1.5. Two Graduate student representatives who shall be chosen in an election to be organized in Spring Semester each year by the office of the Dean. A call for nominations will be drawn from, and subsequent balloting limited to, the graduate student constituency.
3.3.3.2. Functions
3.3.3.2.1. The College Graduate Council shall be the legislative and policy-making organ of the College in all matters dealing with graduate work.
3.3.3.2.2. In consultation with the faculty of the Departments, the College Graduate Council shall make decisions on existing and proposed graduate programs and courses within the College.

3.3.3.3. Procedures
3.3.3.3.1. The Council shall determine its own operating rules and procedures.
3.3.3.3.2. The Council shall select its own chairperson at the first meeting of the academic year. The chairperson shall be elected to a one year term.
3.3.3.3.3. The Council shall meet on the call of the graduate chairperson or on petition by half of its members.
3.3.3.3.4. The chairperson shall report the activities of the Council at the spring meeting of the College.
3.3.3.3.5. The Council shall report its activities to the College faculty through minutes and shall make an annual report to the College Advisory Council.
3.3.3.4. Eligibility
3.3.3.4.1. Any voting faculty member of the Departments and extra-Departmental Programs offering a graduate degree is eligible for selection to the Graduate Council, with the exception of the Dean, Associate and Assistant Deans. This selection is subject to provisions enumerated in Department and extra- Departmental Program policies.
3.3.3.4.2. The graduate student representatives must be enrolled in an advanced degree program within the College of Arts and Letters and in good academic standing.
3.3.3.5. Terms of Office
3.3.3.5.1. Faculty representatives shall serve terms of office according to individual Department and extra- Departmental program policies.
3.3.3.5.2. The graduate student representatives shall serve a one-year term, to commence at the beginning of the fall semester.
3.3.3.5.3. A faculty vacancy occurring on the Council during a term of office shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term. A faculty vacancy shall occur by resignation or when a Council member is absent or expects to be absent for a period of two months or more. The replacements shall be selected by the Department or extra- Departmental program of the resigning representative.
3.3.3.5.4. Any student vacancy occurring during a term of office shall be filled as provided for in the Bylaws for Academic Governance-Michigan State University.

3.3.3.6. Selection
3.3.3.6.1. When a faculty representative is about to finish a term of office, the relevant Department or extra- Departmental program shall select its representative in accordance with its policies.
3.4.Standing Committees Advisory to the Dean
3.4.1. College Reappointment, Promotion, and Tenure Committee
3.4.1.1. Function
3.4.1.1.1. The College Reappointment, Promotion, and Tenure Committee (RPT) acts in an advisory capacity to the Dean. It shall review the dossiers of all candidates for reappointment, promotion, and tenure according to the criteria for reappointment, promotion, and tenure set forth in the MSU Faculty Handbook in the section entitled “Appointment, Reappointment, Tenure and Promotion Recommendations,” and in accordance with the College of Arts & Letters Reappointment, Promotion and Tenure Guidelines as attached for reference to these bylaws. It shall also review matters of procedure in the relevant Department RPT process.
3.4.1.2. Composition and Selection
3.4.1.2.1. The Committee shall consist of five members holding the rank of associate professor with tenure or full professor, but the Dean, Associate or Assistant Deans, and Department chairpersons and directors shall be ineligible to serve on the Committee. Four members will be elected by the College faculty and one member appointed by the Dean. No Department shall have more than one of its members on the Committee at any given time, both Arts (AAH and THR) and Letters (all other departments) shall be represented on the committee, and the majority of the Committee shall be composed of members holding the rank of full professor.
3.4.1.2.2. Elected Committee members shall serve two- year terms. To provide continuity on the Committee, the terms of Committee members shall be staggered.
3.4.1.2.3. 3.4.1.2.3. Elections for the following year’s Committee shall be no later than November 15. Each Department of the College that does not have a continuing representative on the Committee shall nominate one tenured faculty member. From this list of nominees, the CAC shall select four for the final ballot, three of whom shall hold the rank of full professor. From this list of four tenured members, persons appointed in the College under the rules of tenure and holding the rank of professor, associate

professor, or assistant professor shall elect two individuals to serve on the committee.
3.4.1.3. Procedures
3.4.1.3.1. Each year’s Reappointment, Promotion, and Tenure Committee shall be called into session at the beginning of the spring semester by the Dean. After consultation with the Dean, the Committee shall determine its own operating and reporting procedures.
3.4.1.3.2. At the initial meeting of each year’s Committee the Committee shall elect a chairperson from among its members and shall then meet upon the call of the chairperson.
3.4.1.3.3. Deliberations and discussions of the Committee shall be confidential. If clarification is required concerning a nominee’s credentials or a policy of a Department, the chair of the Committee shall gather information through the chair or director of the Department making the nomination.
3.4.1.3.4. In each case, the Committee shall make a recommendation to the Dean. Each recommendation shall include a) a statement that the candidate be reappointed or not, promoted or not, and/or tenured or not, and b) an assessment of the candidate’s research/creative work, teaching and service.
3.4.1.3.5. At the end of each academic year the Committee shall report to the CAC on the Committee’s own activities and procedures and on matters regarding the reappointment, promotion, and tenure process at the Department or College level.
3.4.1.4. Reappointment, Promotion, and Tenure Dossier
3.4.1.4.1. In order to make its recommendation to the Dean the Committee shall have access to:
3.4.1.4.1.1. All the materials submitted by the candidate to his or her Department RPT committee.
3.4.1.4.1.2. All outside letters of recommendation submitted by the Department as part of the candidate’s reappointment, promotion, and tenure materials.
3.4.1.4.1.3. The report of the Department RPT committee regarding the candidate.

3.4.1.4.1.4. The letter of recommendation submitted by the chairperson or director of the Department in which the tenure.
3.4.2 College Inclusive Practices Committee 3.4.2.1. Function
3.4.2.1.1. The College Inclusive Practices Committee shall work with departments, programs, centers, and the administration of the College to sustain inclusive practices as part of the core work of the College across all areas of endeavor, including teaching, scholarship, service, governance, leadership, professional development, and administration.
3.4.2.1.2. The Committee shall support full participation in the activities of the college by a diverse cohort of faculty, staff, and students, where diversity encompasses, but is not limited to: rank or appointment type; area of artistic or scholarly endeavor with the arts and letters; identity and individual characteristics noted in the MSU Anti-Discrimination Policy.
3.4.2.2. Composition
3.4.2.2.1. To ensure representation of the diverse academic interests of the College, the Committee shall be composed of:
3.4.2.2.1.1. One faculty member selected by each Department in the College.
3.4.2.2.1.2. One faculty member selected by the Centers and Programs of the College.
3.4.2.2.1.3. One fixed-term faculty member considered a voting member of the College.
3.4.2.2.1.4. One undergraduate student representative. 3.4.2.2.1.5. One graduate student representative.
3.4.2.2.1.6. One member appointed by the dean, if deemed necessary, to ensure appropriate balances of rank and appointment types.
3.4.2.2.1.7. One academic specialist considered a voting member of the College.
3.4.2.2.1.8. Ex officio members without vote will include: the Dean or his/her Associate or Assistant Dean; the Associate Dean for Diversity, Inclusion, and Community Engagement; the Faculty Excellence Advocate; and the IDEA coordinator.

3.4.2.3. Procedures
3.4.2.3.1. The Committee shall determine its own operating rules and procedures.
3.4.2.3.2. Its chairperson shall be elected from among its members at the first meeting of the academic year. The chairperson shall be elected to serve a one-year term.
3.4.2.3.3. The Committee shall meet at least once during each of the fall and spring semesters.
3.4.2.3.4. The Committee shall meet on the call of the Dean, the Committee chairperson, or by petition of at least one-third of the voting members of the committee to the Committee chairperson.
3.4.2.3.5. The Committee shall report its activities to the College faculty through its minutes, a written annual report to the College Advisory Council, and a report by its chairperson at the Spring College Meeting.
3.4.2.4. Terms of Office
3.4.2.4.1. Faculty committee members shall serve two-years terms, with one-half of the members selected each year. No faculty member shall serve more than two consecutive terms.
3.4.2.4.2. The undergraduate and graduate student representatives shall serve one-year terms.
3.4.2.4.3. Student representatives shall be elected to the Committee on Inclusive Practices in an election to be organized by the Office of the Dean in the Spring semester each year. A call for nominations will be drawn from, and subsequent balloting limited to, the undergraduate or graduate student constituency to be represented.
3.4.2.4.4. Other representatives shall be elected using the procedures agreed upon by their constituency.
3.5.Special Committees
3.5.1. Special committees may be established by the Dean, by the College Advisory Council, or by a majority vote of the College faculty.
3.6.Grievance and Hearing Procedures 3.6.1. Faculty
3.6.1.1. The College of Arts and Letters follows the Faculty Grievance Policy published in the Faculty Handbook and approved by the Board of Trustees for resolving employment

related disputes that arise between faculty or academic staff and administrators. The formal procedures described there are intended to be used only when matters cannot be resolved informally.
3.6.2. Students
3.6.2.1. The student grievance procedure shall be in accord with the procedures detailed in the document titled “Academic Freedom for Students at Michigan State University,” and, in the case of graduate students, in the publication titled “Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities.”
3.7.Faculty Salary Adjustments
3.7.1. The Dean shall publicize criteria and procedures for all salary adjustments.
3.7.2. Chairpersons and directors shall publicize criteria and procedures for all salary adjustments.
4. DEPARTMENT ORGANIZATION 4.1.Definition
4.1.1. The Department is the basic administrative unit of teaching, research, service, outreach and engagement within the College.
4.2.Chairperson or Director
4.2.1. The appointment, duties, and responsibilities of a Department chairperson or director shall be in accordance with the Bylaws for Academic Governance-Michigan State University.
4.2.2. The chairperson or director shall be reviewed at regular intervals not to exceed five years. In this process, the Department faculty shall have shared responsibility with the Dean on procedures for review.
4.3.Faculty
4.3.1 The faculty of each Department shall prepare a set of Department bylaws, which shall be accepted by majority vote of the eligible voting faculty. Once approved, a copy of the Department bylaws shall be placed on file in the Office of the Dean.
4.3.2. Department bylaws shall be consistent with the bylaws of the University and those of the College of Arts and Letters.
4.3.3. The Department bylaws shall provide for the election of one or more committees to advise the Department chairperson or director on Department matters, including promotion, appointments, and the elaboration and operation of programs within the Department.

5. THE UNIVERSITY COUNCIL OF THE UNIVERSITY 5.1.Composition
The composition of the University Council of the University is established in the Bylaws for Academic Governance-Michigan State University. The method for determining the number of Council representatives from each College is established in the Bylaws for Academic Governance-Michigan State University.
6. STANDING COMMITTEES OF THE ACADEMIC COUNCIL 6.1.List of Standing Committees
The standing committees of the Academic Council are established in the Bylaws for Academic Governance-Michigan State University, and are as follows:
University Committee on Undergraduate Education University Committee on Graduate Studies University Committee on Curriculum
University Committee on Faculty Tenure
University Committee on Faculty Affairs University Committee on Student Affairs University Committee on Academic Governance
Only in the case of the first five of the above-named standing committees does the College participate in the selection of members.
6.2.Selection of Representatives from the College 6.2.1. Faculty representatives
6.2.1.1. Terms of office
6.2.1.1.1. In accordance with the Bylaws for Academic Governance-Michigan State University, the term of office of elected Arts and Letters faculty members on standing committees of the University shall be two years.
6.2.1.1.2. Terms of offices shall begin on August 16 and shall terminate on August 15.
6.2.1.1.3. No person may serve as a voting member of more than one University standing committee at a time.
6.2.1.1.4. No elected faculty member of a University standing committee shall serve more than two consecutive terms on the same University standing committee.
6.2.1.2. Elections

6.2.1.2.1. No later than January 10 the College Advisory Council shall distribute to the Departments a list of the faculty positions on the standing committees of the University which will become vacant the following August 15.
6.2.1.2.2. Not later than February 1, each Department of the College shall select, in accordance with its bylaws, one faculty candidate for each of the standing committees of the University on which an Arts and Letters position will become vacant on August 15.
6.2.1.2.3. These nominees shall be submitted to the College Advisory Council, which shall select from the list two candidates for each Arts and Letters position.
6.2.1.2.4. The names of these candidates shall be submitted by ballot through the campus mail or e-mail to the voting faculty of the College, who shall vote for one member for each position to become vacant. Election shall be by a majority of votes cast.
6.2.1.2.5. If an elected faculty member of a University committee is unable to fill his/her office for a semester or longer a replacement shall be appointed by the College Advisory Council.
6.2.2. Student Representatives
Student representatives on University standing committees shall be chosen according to the Bylaws for Academic Governance- Michigan State University.
7. DISTRIBUTION, INTERPRETATION, REVIEW, ANDAMENDMENTS
7.1.Distribution
The Dean shall distribute these bylaws to all current and new members of the faculty, and they shall be posted on the College of Arts and Letters website.
7.2.Interpretation
The College Advisory Council shall be the final authority concerning the interpretation of these bylaws.
7.3.Review
The College Advisory Council shall review these bylaws at intervals not to exceed five years.
7.4.Amendments
Amendments to these bylaws shall be adopted upon approval by two- thirds of those voting on a mailed or an emailed ballot following an ordinary College meeting at which the amendment was discussed and at which the email ballot was approved by a majority of those present and voting. Minutes of the meeting must accompany ballots when the letters are sent out.

Last Revised September 1, 2017
College of Arts and Letters
Reappointment, Promotion, and Tenure Guidelines
The personnel review process begins no later than the end of Spring semester of the academic year preceding the formal review. The unit administrator, “Chairperson,” but henceforth, in this document, “Chair” informs the candidate for personnel action that the process will take place during the following academic year. The Chair reviews the promotion and tenure criteria and the review process with the candidate, and begins the preparation of the dossier.
A key element in the tenure and promotion review process (and an optional element in cases of reappointments) is peer review by means of external referee letters. The College of Arts and Letters complies with the October 25, 2011 Reappointment, Promotion, and Tenure Toolkit, which specifies, “a minimum of 4 external letters are solicited. External referees must be professionally capable to evaluate the candidate's scholarly work objectively and to comment on its significance in the discipline" (9).
Prior to the solicitation of letters from the referees, each candidate can provide a short list to the Chair that includes potential referees who should not be contacted because of conflicts of interest that would preclude a fair and unbiased professional review of the dossier materials. There is an expectation that this list will be limited and not exceed three individuals. Half of the external referee letters will be requested from prominent scholars or artists in the relevant field based on a list developed by the candidate. The other half of the referee letters will be requested from prominent scholars or artists on a list developed by the Chair. Letters should be solicited from the external referees no later than July 1 of the summer preceding the fall semester review; contacts with external referees are preferably made before the end of the spring semester preceding the review year.
The Chair will assure that each candidate has at least four external review letters; all review letters solicited by the Chair that are received will be included in the dossier. No unsolicited letters will be included in any part of the dossier, nor will review committees or administrators read them. To the extent defensible under Michigan law, the identity of external referees is not revealed to the candidates being reviewed, and only faculty members of duly constituted review committees and relevant administrators will read the referee letters. External reviews should be solicited by the Chair by means of a letter (or letter format) that has been approved by the Dean of the College.
As the review process begins (but no later than the end of the spring semester prior to the review year), the candidate submits to the Chair a self evaluation of 3-5 pages addressing research/creative activity, teaching, and service. The self evaluation forms an important part of the dossier; it should specifically address the
         
candidate’s accomplishments to date in light of the unit’s and the University’s criteria for reappointment, promotion, and/or tenure. At this time the candidate should also provide the Chair an up-to-date curriculum vitae, including complete bibliographical information on all publications and explanation of any works listed prior to publication (e.g. the exact status of any manuscript listed as “in press,” “forthcoming,” “under revision,” etc.). These, plus sample publications if relevant, and the University and unit promotion and/or tenure criteria, are sent to the referees. Other information and materials may be sent as well, according to general unit practice.
The candidate’s dossier for review at the unit level includes the self evaluation, the curriculum vitae, the external referee letters, sample publications and/or creative works, teaching evaluations and/or portfolios, documents supportive of quality outreach, as relevant, and any other materials required by University guidelines, the unit bylaws, or solicited by the Chair. Once the dossier is assembled, no additional material is added to it, except as indicated below or unless specifically requested by the chair, dean, or provost.
The dossier is first reviewed by the duly constituted departmental personnel review committee or committees. Committee recommendations are advisory to the Chair. Committee recommendations to the Chair should be in writing and include both the recommended personnel action and an explanation of how the committee arrived at the recommendation (i.e. a discussion of the strengths and weaknesses of the materials in the dossier and the case in general with respect to the criteria). All faculty members of the committee(s) should indicate, by signature, that the recommendation letter is a fair representation of the committee sentiment. If there is a minority or dissenting viewpoint, the letter(s) should so indicate. The letter(s) then become part of the candidate’s dossier.
The Chair then reviews the dossier, and makes a recommendation to the Dean. If the Chair is recommending support of reappointment, promotion, and/or tenure, the Chair writes a letter to the Dean that explains reasons for agreeing or disagreeing with the unit review committee(s), provides interpretative commentary about both the candidate’s accomplishments and the referee letters, and explains (either in the letter, or in supplemental materials) how and why the particular referees were chosen. The dossier that is forwarded to the Dean contains the University-required Form D, all received referee letters, the candidate’s self evaluation and curriculum vitae, the unit review committee(s) letter(s), a summary statement about the candidate’s teaching evaluations and teaching accomplishments, and the unit’s RPT criteria. If the Dean or the College RPT committee requires further information or materials, the Chair will be contacted.
If the Chair is not recommending in favor of the personnel action, and if the candidate is being reviewed in a mandatory review year, the dossier is forwarded to the College. If the Chair is recommending against the personnel action in an optional review year, the candidate is informed and it is the candidate’s prerogative to either withdraw the dossier from further consideration or have it forwarded to the College for review.
Once a dossier is forwarded to the Office of the Dean, the Chair will notify the candidate what action was recommended by the unit committee(s) and what the Chair has recommended. The College RPT committee makes an advisory recommendation to the Dean on all major personnel actions (reappointment, promotion, and tenure) in the College. The Committee shall consist of five members holding the rank of associate professor with tenure or full professor, but the Dean,

Associate or Assistant Deans, and Department chairpersons and directors shall be ineligible to serve on the Committee. Four members will be elected by the College faculty and one member appointed by the Dean. No Department shall have more than one of its members on the Committee at any given time, both Arts (AAHD and THR) and Letters (all other departments) shall be represented on the committee, and the majority of the Committee shall be composed of members holding the rank of full professor.
(Please refer to the College of Arts and Letters Bylaws, Sec. 3.4)
Once a candidate’s dossier has been forwarded to the Office of the Dean, the duly constituted College RPT committee begins its review. Prior to reviewing unit recommendations for reappointment and promotion, the College RPT committee reviews (1) the unit and college criteria for reappointment or promotion and (2) the university policies and procedures regarding the RPT process. The committee meets independently of the Dean and reviews each candidate’s dossier with respect to the College criteria for the relevant personnel action.
In reviewing each candidate’s dossier according to college criteria, the RPT committee will be mindful of the College’s continuing objective to improve its faculty with each personnel recommendation. The committee will also be mindful of supporting procedural due process. Any concerns about potential breach of due process will be communicated to the Dean. A member of the committee from the candidate’s home unit, or any member who is involved in collaborative work with the candidate, may participate in committee discussions about the candidate, but must recuse herself/himself from the vote. All deliberations of the committee are held in strict confidence, although questions may be directed to the Chair about individual candidates, and the Dean may be consulted if necessary. A positive recommendation for reappointment, promotion, and/or tenure may ensue once it is determined that the applicable position is to be retained.
College criteria:
In the absence of specifically adopted guidelines to the contrary, the College criteria for personnel actions are drawn from the University’s standards.
For reappointment, as well as for promotion and/or tenure, the candidate must provide solid evidence of consistent and persistent professional improvement and effectiveness at Michigan State University and in the College of Arts and Letters sufficient to demonstrate the promise of continued professional achievement and growth for the remainder of the individual’s academic career. Evidence of actual and/or potential competitiveness for positions at other Committee on Institutional Cooperation (CIC) Universities, or comparable peers, is the appropriate measure of promise. In other words, achievement and performance levels must be competitive with faculties of leading research-intensive, land-grant, AAU universities of international scope (MSU’s peers).
A recommendation for promotion from assistant professor to associate professor in the tenure system must be based on several years of sustained, outstanding achievements in education and scholarship across the mission. These achievements must be consistent with performance levels expected for promotion to associate professor at peer institutions, and there must be a

sufficiently long period in rank prior to the promotion as to provide a firm basis in actual performance for predicting long term capacity for the achievement and maintenance of national stature and enduring high quality professional achievement. A recommendation for tenure for an individual appointed initially as associate professor on a probationary basis will be made if the individual has achieved the same level of promise (as the successful assistant professor promoted to associate professor with tenure) based on professional accomplishments.
A recommendation for promotion from associate professor to professor in the tenure system must be based on several years of sustained, outstanding achievements in education and scholarship across the mission. These achievements must be consistent with performance levels expected for promotion to professor at peer institutions, and there must be a sufficiently long period in rank prior to the promotion as to provide a firm basis in actual performance to permit endorsement of the individual as an expert or artist of national stature and to predict continuous, long-term, high quality professional achievement.
After full review of each candidate dossier, the college RPT committee makes a recommendation to the Dean. The committee recommendation on each case will be submitted to the Dean in the form of a letter, signed by each member of the committee who has participated in the review. As per the Reappointment, Promotion, and Tenure Toolkit, “the Dean meets with the College RPT committee and discusses each recommendation from the committee” (22).
All recommendations are understood to be advisory to the Provost until a final personnel action is taken.
The Dean, in submitting a recommendation to the Provost on each personnel action, will consider the RPT committee’s recommendation letter and will include an explanation for accepting or disagreeing with the recommendation. Information regarding unit and college evaluation criteria and expectations are included with the Dean’s recommendation in the Provost’s Office. The Dean, via the Chair, will inform each candidate of the action recommended by the committee and by the Dean her/himself. The Dean will also report to the committee whether s/he has agreed or disagreed with its recommendations. Consistent with University policy, any negative outcome of a personnel review (for reappointment, promotion and/or tenure) will be explained to the candidate in writing.
These guidelines were developed and adopted during Spring, 1999. They will guide College personnel actions until revised or replaced.
First Revised 4/15/2008
Second revision for review by CAC on 12/14/2012
Second revision reviewed and accepted by CAC on 1/12/2012.
