
Spartan Helmet
Toggle Search and Navigation Menu
Search Tool
Office of the President John Engler

    Home
    President
    Advancing MSU
    Communications
    President's Office

Advancing MSU
Statement on Diversity and Inclusion

Michigan State University is guided by values that are embedded in our rich heritage as a leading land-grant university and our current position as a world-grant institution among the best universities in the world. Foremost among our values is inclusion.

At MSU we take great pride in our diversity. Valuing inclusion means providing all who live, learn, and work at the university the opportunity to actively participate in a vibrant, intellectual community that offers a broad range of ideas and perspectives. To benefit from our campus’ diversity, we must embrace the opportunity to learn from each other. At MSU we welcome a full spectrum of experiences, viewpoints, and intellectual approaches because it enriches the conversation and benefits everyone, even as it challenges us to grow and think differently.

Valuing inclusion benefits MSU scholars who advance knowledge by exploring the vast range of questions that result from our differences. It benefits our employees by creating a stronger work environment that draws on various points of view. And it benefits our students by enriching their learning experience and better preparing them to function as effective citizens. Employers and graduate and professional schools are seeking people who are culturally competent and have the skills to function in a global society. We all have the opportunity to gain these experiences and skills at MSU.

Our commitment to inclusion means we embrace access to success for all and treat all members of the extended MSU community with fairness and dignity. We recognize that cross-cultural interactions may sometimes create moments of surprise or discomfort. But when perspectives clash, we have an individual and shared responsibility to guard against behaviors that demean or otherwise harm individuals and our community. A strong campus community is characterized by respect for, and civility toward, one another.

Throughout the year, MSU provides opportunities for the campus community to share ways in which we can become more inclusive. Join me as we build a welcoming community.

Our Commitment: Fostering a culture of safety & respect
Learn more

Healing Assistance Fund
Learn more

@michiganstateu appoints Bill Beekman as interim athletic director.
Follow

President John Engler
Read his bio

    Contact Information Site Map Privacy Statement Site Accessibility 

    Call MSU: (517) 355-6560 Visit: msu.edu MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. Notice of Nondiscrimination 

    Spartans Will. © Michigan State University 

Michigan State University Wordmark
