Spartan Life Student Handbook - Assistance for Renters

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
        -   On-Campus Housing
        -   MSU Surplus Store and Recycling
        -   Off-Campus Housing
            -   Assistance for Renters
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Housing

> Off-Campus Housing

> Assistance for Renters

[Click here to print this page]



ASSISTANCE FOR RENTERS


STUDENT LEGAL SERVICES, a department of ASMSU and supported by COGS, the
all-University student governing bodies, provides free professional
legal counsel to all currently enrolled students. Students can receive
advice and court representation for criminal misdemeanors,
landlord-tenant problems, drunk-driving and other traffic offenses,
debtor/creditor problems and many other civil concerns. The three full
time staff attorneys have been working with the students for over twenty
five years and know how to help MSU students in the most cost-effective
ways. For more information or to set-up an appointment please contact
the office at (517) 353-3716 or visit _www.asmsu.msu.edu _and
_cogs.msu.edu/._

THE HOUSING FAIR AT MSU is held each October at the MSU Union to educate
students about their off- and on-campus living options. Legal
information on lease signing, deposits and other landlord issues is
available as well as representatives from property owners and managers
in the Greater Lansing area. Housing-related resources are also
available at the Housing Fair. Check _www.studentlife.msu.edu_for more
information or email stulife@msu.edu.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
