Spartan Life Student Handbook - Off-Campus Housing

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
        -   On-Campus Housing
        -   MSU Surplus Store and Recycling
        -   Off-Campus Housing
            -   Assistance for Renters
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Housing

> Off-Campus Housing

[Click here to print this page]



OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING


GREEK COMMUNITY CHAPTER HOUSES. Many Greek-letter organizations provide
small-group living-learning opportunities within the East Lansing
community. In addition to housing, the Greek community offers various
educational, academic, service, social, athletic and leadership
opportunities. Contact the Greek governing boards in 325/326 Student
Services Building or _greeklife.msu.edu_ for more information.

COOPERATIVE LIVING UNITS. The 15 area co-ops are student owned and
managed houses offering social and economic benefits for 5-29 members.
Each house is run democratically. Contact the MSU Student Housing
Cooperative, 541 E. Grand River, (517) 355-8313, 10:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m.,
Monday-Friday, or at _www.msu.coop_, or email coop@msu.edu.

RELIGIOUS LIVING UNITS. In general, living in religious living units is
similar to living in other residences with the addition of a
denominational religious experience_._ These units include Living ROCK
(men), East Lansing Student Living Center (The Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter Day Saints), and the Hillel Jewish Student Center. Contact the
Department of Student Life, 101 Student Services Building, (517)
355-8286.

OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING LISTING SERVICES. An online listing of area rentals
in a searchable database is accessible through the MSU
website: _http://offcampushousing.msu.edu_. This free-to-students
service is accessible 24 hours a day and offers educational tools to
assist students in being informed and responsible tenants and allows
students to bookmark their favorite properties. MSU students may also
post one free subletting listing and search for roommates. For
additional information about living in the city of East Lansing, please
visit: _http://collegelifeel.msu.edu_. For any questions please contact
stulife@msu.edu.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
