Spartan Life Student Handbook - On-Campus Housing

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
        -   On-Campus Housing
        -   MSU Surplus Store and Recycling
        -   Off-Campus Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Housing

> On-Campus Housing

[Click here to print this page]



ON-CAMPUS HOUSING


Michigan State University offers housing for undergraduate and graduate
students in 27 residence halls and two apartment communities. In these
facilities multiple housing options are available including living
learning communities, flexible housing, alcohol-free, and quiet floors.
Upper-class students may choose apartments in Akers, Van Hoosen, or
rooms/apartments without a dining plan in Williams, and University
Village. Students in the residence halls receive free weekly linen and
towel service and on-site free laundry facilities. Many of the residence
halls offer community kitchens and cardio rooms in addition to student
lounges and other spaces to enhance the Spartan experience.

Spartan Village offers accommodations for married students, single
parent families, single graduate students, and some single undergraduate
students. Recreational and adult enrichment programs are offered for
students and families.

Michigan State University offers students, faculty, staff and guests
award winning on-campus dining in a variety of facilities across campus.
Dining halls are located in each Neighborhood and hours are posted at
_http://eatatstate.com/_. There are 19 coffee shops and convenience
retail shops throughout campus and two Starbucks.

The residence hall community at MSU is based on the Neighborhood
concept; a program that brings resources directly to students where they
live in the residence halls. These resources include tutoring, advising,
Nurse Practitioners, free fitness classes, and staff from across campus
encouraging intercultural development and communication. The MSU
Neighborhood model is a state-of-the-art housing concept created to help
students learn, develop, and persist to graduation.

Residence Education and Housing Services staff fosters living
environments that support the academic social, and emotional well-being
of students. Residence Education and Housing Services focuses on a
variety of areas impacting students’ overall on-campus living experience
at MSU, including: residence education, housing assignments, housing
operations, facilities, maintenance and conference management. Staff
members provide educational programs, advise student groups, mediate
interpersonal disputes, facilitate community standards, and serve as
liaisons and referral agents for students seeking additional campus or
community resources.

For information on housing options refer to: Academic Programs or call
the Housing Assignments Office, (517) 884-LIVE or (877) 9LIVEON.
Website: _www.liveon.msu.edu/livinglearning_ or email
liveon@mail.rhs.msu.edu.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
