Spartan Life Student Handbook - Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
        -   MSU Student Part Time Jobs and Internships
        -   Employment Verification for Student Employees
        -   Disabilities, Rehabilitation
        -   Michigan Right-To-Know Law
        -   Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993
        -   Rules Governing Personal Conduct of Student Employees
        -   Drug-Free Workplace/Drug-Free Schools
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Employment

> Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993

[Click here to print this page]



FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT OF 1993


The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA) provides eligible
student employees with up to twelve weeks of unpaid, job protected
leave. To be eligible, a student employee must have been employed by MSU
for at least 12 months and have at least 1,250 hours of service in a
twelve-month period. Leave is granted to care for the employee’s child
following birth, or placement for adoption or foster care; to care for
an employee’s spouse, son, daughter, or parent, who has a serious health
condition; or for a serious health condition that makes the employee
unable to perform the employee’s job. Leave is also granted to eligible
student employees for a qualifying exigency arising out of a spouse,
son, daughter or parent on active military duty. In addition, up to 26
weeks of unpaid leave in a single 12-month period is granted to an
eligible student employee to care for a spouse, son, daughter, parent or
next of kin of a covered service member with a serious injury or
illness. Upon return from FMLA leave, student employees will be returned
to their original or an equivalent position. If you have a question, or
to apply for a leave, contact the MSU HR Solutions Center at (517)
353-4434 and ask to speak with an FMLA advisor.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
