Spartan Life Student Handbook - Relationship Violence and Sexual
Misconduct

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct

[Click here to print this page]



RELATIONSHIP VIOLENCE AND SEXUAL MISCONDUCT


Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 prohibits discrimination on
the basis of sex in any education program or activity that receives
federal funding.

Under Title IX, discrimination on the basis of sex includes:

-   Excluding, separating, denying benefits to, or otherwise treating a
    person differently on the basis of gender.
-   Sexual harassment
-   Sexual violence, which includes sexual assault, relationship
    violence, and stalking.

Title IX protects students, employees, applicants for admission and
employment, and other persons from all forms of sex discrimination,
including discrimination based on gender identity or failure to conform
to stereotypical notions of masculinity or femininity.

In support of its obligations under Title IX, MSU’s Relationship
Violence and Sexual Misconduct Policy and Anti-Discrimination Policy
expressly prohibit discrimination on the basis of sex.

MISSION:

It is the mission of the Title IX program at Michigan State University
to cultivate a campus community that is free of sex discrimination and
sexual harassment including relationship violence and sexual
misconduct.  We will do this by:

-   Raising awareness through education and training programs;
-   Encouraging individuals impacted to report incidents;
-   Holding individuals accountable for violations of University policy;
-   Providing students and employees with resources and supportive
    service to facilitate ongoing academic and professional success; and
-   Offering opportunities for community engagement

MORE INFORMATION:

For more information on the Title IX Program at MSU, visit
_www.titleix.msu.edu_.  This site contains comprehensive and important
information on the following:

-   Emergency Assistance
-   Campus and Community Resources
-   Reporting Options
-   University Policies and Procedures
-   Education and Awareness Programs
-   Getting Involved

TITLE IX COORDINATOR

The Title IX Coordinator at MSU is responsible for the University’s
efforts to comply with and carry out its responsibilities under Title
IX, which includes oversight and implementation of the University’s
Title IX policies and grievance procedures, coordination of efforts
across campus related to education, prevention, and training programs,
and monitoring the campus climate.  The Title IX Coordinator is
available to meet with any member of the University community or campus
organizations that would like to discuss the University’s Title IX
compliance or work involving matters of sex discrimination, including
sexual and gender-based harassment, assault, or violence.

CONTACTS:

MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY TITLE IX COORDINATOR
Jessica Norris, Title IX Coordinator
408 W. Circle Drive
Olds Hall Room 4
East Lansing, MI 48824
(517) 353-3922

Ande Durojaiye, Deputy Title IX Coordinator for Investigations
408 W. Circle Drive
Olds Hall Room 4
East Lansing, MI 48824
(517) 353-3922

Shelley Applebaum, Deputy Title IX Coordinator for Athletics
223 Kalamazoo St.
Jenison Field House, Room 248
East Lansing, MI 48824
(517) 353-8849

 

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
