Spartan Life Student Handbook - Religious Activities

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
        -   Student Organizations
        -   Greek Affairs
        -   Service in Community, Service-Learning and Civic Engagement
        -   Multicultural Activities
        -   University Activities Board
        -   The Arts, Museums, Planetarium
        -   Radio
        -   Gardens, Farms, Green Spaces
        -   Religious Activities
        -   Lansing Area Activities
        -   The MSU Union
        -   What, Where and When
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Activities

> Religious Activities

[Click here to print this page]



RELIGIOUS ACTIVITIES


The many churches, synagogues and religious centers in the Greater
Lansing Area serve students in a variety of faiths by providing
opportunities for formal worship and informal fellowship activities. For
a list of those available in the community, consult the Yellow Pages of
the Lansing telephone directory. Members of the Religious Advisors’
Association are listed at_ www.religiouslifeatmsu.org._

Many religiously oriented registered student organizations are active on
the campus. To find out what groups exist, visit:
_http://studentlife.msu.edu/student-organizations-activities_ or contact
the Department of Student Life, 101 Student Services Building, (517)
355-8286.

The interfaith ALUMNI MEMORIAL CHAPEL is located east of Kresge Art
Center. It is available for individuals and groups for religious-passage
ceremonies, private meditation and wedding ceremonies. Hours are posted
at the chapel entrance. To reserve the MSU Alumni Memorial Chapel call
(517) 844-8124.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
