Spartan Life Student Handbook - Service in Community, Service-Learning
and Civic Engagement

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
        -   Student Organizations
        -   Greek Affairs
        -   Service in Community, Service-Learning and Civic Engagement
        -   Multicultural Activities
        -   University Activities Board
        -   The Arts, Museums, Planetarium
        -   Radio
        -   Gardens, Farms, Green Spaces
        -   Religious Activities
        -   Lansing Area Activities
        -   The MSU Union
        -   What, Where and When
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Activities

> Service in Community, Service-Learning and Civic Engagement

[Click here to print this page]



SERVICE IN COMMUNITY, SERVICE-LEARNING AND CIVIC ENGAGEMENT


The MSU Center for Service-Learning and Civic Engagement (CSLCE)
supports MSU faculty and students by offering a variety of resources for
community engaged teaching, learning and service. Our office promotes
community engaged teaching and learning to encourage students to develop
their academic, personal, professional, and civic skills while making a
positive difference by contributing to the common good of local,
national, and international communities through service.

The CSLCE prepares students for meaningful community engagement in the
following ways:

-   A Volunteer Matching System via GiveGab (_www.givegab.com_) which
    enables students to easily find local volunteer opportunities,
    connect with community agencies, and log volunteer service hours.
    Contact us for more information on joining the MSU GiveGab community
    (_msu.givegab.com_), or for assistance in setting up a free GiveGab
    account.
-   Community Engagement Placements to help students find academic
    service-learning and pre-professional volunteering opportunities at
    local hospitals through our online database
    (_www.servelearnengage.msu.edu_).
-   Service Resources & “Toolkits” which empower students who want to
    create their own service projects or service-oriented trips. Our
    “Day of Service” and “Alternative Spring Break” toolkits are
    available as free downloads on our website
    (_www.servicelearning.msu.edu/resources/toolkits_).
-   Transportation assistance is offered to students, including a
    variety of resources including maps, free CATA bus tokens, and
    shuttle rides to (select) service sites in Greater Lansing.
-   Advisors are available to assist MSU service/civic-oriented
    registered student organizations. We have long-standing advising
    relationships with several MSU student organizations (e.g.,
    Alternative Spartan Breaks, etc.) and we are eager to connect with
    and support other similar student groups.
-   Campus & Community Networking to help students and community
    agencies identify potential partnerships and connect with other
    like-minded campus/community members.
-   Community Engagement Orientations are hosted throughout the semester
    to help students learn more about the “Tools of Engagement”
    (_http://tools.outreach.msu.edu_) which are vital for meaningful and
    effective community engagement experiences. We also host “Situated
    Spartan” orientations that help students learn about important
    concepts like power/privilege and the roles these concepts have in
    community engaged service.
-   Academic Consultants offer their educational expertise to help
    faculty and students identify and utilize high-impact teaching
    strategies to maximize service-learning outcomes.
-   Voting Resources to promote MSU student voter registration,
    education, and participation in local, statewide, and national
    elections (_youvote.msu.edu_).

If you have questions, or would like more information about these CSLCE
resources and services, please pay us a visit at 345 Student Services
Building, email servlrn@msu.edu, call (517) 353-4400, or visit
_www.servicelearning.msu.edu_.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
