Spartan Life Student Handbook - Student Organizations

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
        -   Student Organizations
        -   Greek Affairs
        -   Service in Community, Service-Learning and Civic Engagement
        -   Multicultural Activities
        -   University Activities Board
        -   The Arts, Museums, Planetarium
        -   Radio
        -   Gardens, Farms, Green Spaces
        -   Religious Activities
        -   Lansing Area Activities
        -   The MSU Union
        -   What, Where and When
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Activities

> Student Organizations

[Click here to print this page]



STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS


Located on the first floor of the Student Services Building, the
Department of Student Life is ready to assist students and student
organizations. More than 700 student organizations register each year,
including honorary, professional organizations, fraternities and
sororities, sports clubs, international, racial/ethnic, religious,
academic interest groups, political, service and volunteer, public
relations and media organizations. The office works with all recognized
student organizations, major governing groups, and living unit groups by
assisting them with registration, event planning, financial account
registration, and other organizational matters. Students should always
feel free to drop in or to call the office with any questions (contact
information below).

Students wishing information on creating, managing and sustaining a
student organization should consult the staff of the Student Life
Office. The staff also helps student organizations have access to campus
funding sources. Many groups sponsor speakers, movies, cultural,
recreational, social and entertainment events throughout the year.

A list of registered student organizations is available at:
_www.studentlife.msu.edu_ or the Student Life Office at 101 Student
Services Building, (517) 355-8286. Email stulife@msu.edu.

STUDENT ALLOCATIONS BOARD (see _Governance at MSU_) provides funding on
a first come, first served basis to MSU Registered Student Organizations
and to the Council of Racial and Ethnic Students (CORES) and Council of
Progressive Students (COPS). The Student Allocations Board is a branch
of the Associated Students of Michigan State University (ASMSU) and the
funding is available through a portion of the ASMSU Student Tax. For
more information, please contact the Vice President for Student
Allocations at VPSAS@asmsu.msu.edu or visit ASMSU’s website,
_asmsu.msu.edu._

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
