Spartan Life Student Handbook - The MSU Union

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
        -   Student Organizations
        -   Greek Affairs
        -   Service in Community, Service-Learning and Civic Engagement
        -   Multicultural Activities
        -   University Activities Board
        -   The Arts, Museums, Planetarium
        -   Radio
        -   Gardens, Farms, Green Spaces
        -   Religious Activities
        -   Lansing Area Activities
        -   The MSU Union
        -   What, Where and When
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Activities

> The MSU Union

[Click here to print this page]



THE MSU UNION


Whether you want shopping, dining or entertainment the MSU UNION has
something just for you. Located between the bustling campus and the East
Lansing community at the corner of Abbot and Grand River, it’s a vibrant
lifestyle center where students meet and have fun. Coffee or soda break,
snack or meal, souvenir or complete wardrobe; we have what you are
looking for. You can go bowling, enjoy concerts or just relax and surf
wireless anywhere in the building. If it’s time for you to study we have
spaces for groups, quiet zones and open University computers. To find
out everything that’s going on check out our website _www.msuunion.com._

SHOPPING

-   Spartan Spirit Shop – there are six on-campus locations: Forest
    Akers and West Golf Courses, MSU Tennis Center, Kellogg Hotel and
    Conference Center, 1855 Place and the MSU Union. Get the latest in
    MSU brand apparel and souvenirs and a large selection of graduation
    items and commencement apparel. You will find unique items that you
    can’t find anywhere else in East Lansing! Shop online at
    _spartanspiritshop.msu.edu._
-   Sparty’s Express – is ready for all of your last-minute needs with
    snacks, beverages, bus passes, school supplies, sundries and
    convenience items. Use your combo exchange at Sparty’s.

DINING

-   MSU Union Food Court – food court features Union Pizzeria, Serrano’s
    and the Union Deli. Use your combo exchange or stop by for Late
    Night Dining.
-   MSU Dairy Store – featuring all of your favorite ice cream flavors.
-   Biggby Coffee – get your favorite hot or cold coffee beverage from
    Lansing’s own Biggby Coffee.
-   Kellogg Catering – exclusive caters for all events hosted in the MSU
    Union. Services available across campus and off-campus.

ENTERTAINMENT

-   University Activities Board – plans all the fun you can handle every
    weekend. Movies, concerts, comedy shows, parties, educational and
    multicultural activities programmed in the MSU Union and across
    campus.
-   Spartan Lanes – features weekly rates for open bowling, leagues,
    parties and classes.
-   Bronze Sparty – Come and have your photo taken with the greatest
    mascot in the world – SPARTY! The MSU Union is home to the bronze
    monument to Sparty. Bring your friends and your camera and take a
    picture. A Spartan Bucket List item for sure!!

SERVICES

-   Meeting Facilities – flexible space available for small or large
    groups. Registered Student Organizations receive use of 3rd floor
    meeting rooms for weekly meetings. Special student rates available
    for social events held in the Ballroom.
-   MSU Union Welcome Center/U.S. Post Office – full service postal
    substation offering stamps, USPS mailing supplies, and shipping.
-   Michigan State University Federal Credit Union – full-service branch
    available for all your financial needs.
-   Wireless – available with MSU Net ID throughout the entire building.
-   ATMs – full service.
-   Study Space – quiet and group areas located throughout the building.
-   MSU Union Media Center – offers copying services, Apple computers
    for graphic design work, a green-screen studio with video camera
    rental (free for MSU Students), balloons and button making machines,
    and large scale printing.

CAMPUS OFFICES

-   North Neighborhood Engagement Center
-   Multicultural Center
-   Student Alumni Foundation

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
