Spartan Life Student Handbook - The Arts, Museums, Planetarium

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
        -   Student Organizations
        -   Greek Affairs
        -   Service in Community, Service-Learning and Civic Engagement
        -   Multicultural Activities
        -   University Activities Board
        -   The Arts, Museums, Planetarium
        -   Radio
        -   Gardens, Farms, Green Spaces
        -   Religious Activities
        -   Lansing Area Activities
        -   The MSU Union
        -   What, Where and When
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Activities

> The Arts, Museums, Planetarium

[Click here to print this page]



THE ARTS, MUSEUMS, PLANETARIUM


CONCERTS: ASMSU, the all-university undergraduate student government,
RHA, the student government for on-campus residents, and UAB, the Union
Activities Board sponsors one or more concerts each year. Past years
events have included Conan O’Brien, Drake, The Fray, Mike Posner, Nas,
Lupe Fiasco, Kevin Hart, Aziz Ansari, Kesha and the Creepies, Lil Uzi
Vert, Brand New, Macklemore & Ryan, and many more.  Concert tickets are
usually provided at a discounted price for MSU undergraduate students.
For upcoming concerts and events please be sure to visit
_www.asmsu.msu.edu, www.uabevents.com_ or _www.rha.msu.edu._  You can
also follow all three groups on twitter, @asmsu @MSURHA, and @uabatmsu
to get the latest on concert schedules.

THEATRE: The Department of Theatre sponsors a wide variety of dramatic
and musical theatre productions. Performances occur in the Pasant
Theatre, Fairchild Theatre, Studio 60 Theatre, RCAH Auditorium, and the
Arena Theatre. Graduate and undergraduate talent is featured in these
productions and participation is open to all MSU students. Additional
programs include student productions throughout the year and Summer
Circle Theatre. For general information, visit _www.theatre.msu.edu_ or
call (517) 355-6690. Tickets are available at the Wharton Center Box
Office, (517) 432-2000.

WHARTON CENTER FOR PERFORMING ARTS: Wharton Center, located in the heart
of MSU’s campus, brings the best of touring Broadway to East Lansing.
This season you’ll have the opportunity to see _The Bodyguard;_ _Finding
Neverland; Waitress; An American in Paris;_ _On Your Feet!; Something
Rotten!_ and _Disney’s_ _The Lion King_. If you are interested in dance,
then check out Hubbard Street Dance Chicago, Dance Theatre of Harlem,
Travis Wall’s Shaping Sound, or Moscow Festival Ballet.

Wharton Center has something for every student’s interest, including the
world’s most sought-after classical musicians such as Yo-Yo Ma, Moscow
State Symphony Orchestra and Vienna Boys Choir. The Center even created
a student marketing team to help reach MSU audiences who may want to
take advantage of student pricing, which is $29.00 for most MSU Federal
Credit Union Broadway at Wharton Center attractions and $19.00 for most
Performing Arts attractions. For a complete list of all the amazing
events coming this season, visit _www.whartoncenter.com_.

Through the performing arts and arts education, Wharton Center is
committed to fostering confidence, creativity, cooperation and empathy.
The Wharton Center Institute for Arts & Creativity works with MSU’s
Department of Theatre on ĭmáGen, a yearly collaboration in which MSU
students and high school students work with Broadway professionals to
bring a brand-new musical to life. Other Wharton Institute programs
include: dance workshops with the College of Osteopathic Medicine; music
and dance masterclasses for MSU students; intensives with resident
artists where students learn storytelling, puppetry, improvisation and
other performance skills; summer musical theatre workshops led by
Broadway professionals; internships; and numerous community and public
school programs that educate and inspire more than 28,000 learners of
all ages each year. To learn more about how you can engage with Wharton
Center, visit _www.whartoncenter.com._

BRESLIN STUDENT EVENTS CENTER: The Breslin Student Events Center is a
unique multi-purpose venue which is the proud home to the nationally
acclaimed men’s and women’s Spartan basketball teams. The arena has
15,000 seats and hosts numerous concerts, sporting events, family shows
and conferences each year. Two auxiliary gymnasiums and five meeting
rooms provide space for smaller groups. Recent renovations have added a
beautiful Hall of History showcasing MSU basketball, as well as a wider
concourse and additional restrooms and concession stands. For upcoming
events visit our website at _breslincenter.com._

MUSIC: The College of Music presents opportunities to experience a
variety of live events throughout the academic year. All events are
discounted or free for students with ID and anyone under the age of 18.
Concerts and productions represent a range of genres including
classical, jazz, opera, chamber music, and new music. They take place in
Wharton Center for Performing Arts and in newly renovated small venues –
Fairchild Theatre in the MSU Auditorium and Cook Recital Hall in the
Music Building. Groupings of themed concert series feature the talent of
artist faculty, guest artists and student musicians throughout the
season. For current concert information, visit the
website: _music.msu.edu/events__._ You can also subscribe to receive
regular event updates online: _music.msu.edu/subscribe._

All ensembles are open to MSU students in the College of Music and other
non-music majors who are selected by audition. The range of performance
opportunities for students include performing in bands, orchestras, jazz
groups, choirs, opera productions, and the Spartan Marching Band. For
more information, including how to audition, visit
_music.msu.edu/audition_.

Additional instruction in music for all ages is available through the
Community Music School, _cms.msu.edu_.

THE ELI AND EDYTHE BROAD ART MUSEUM is the art museum of Michigan State
University. Admission and memberships are free. There are rotating
exhibitions, lecture series, and free programming. Designed by Pritzker
Prize-winning architect Zaha Hadid, the museum features a striking
façade of pleated stainless steel and glass. As an engaged public
institution, the MSU Broad is a contemporary museum devoted to the
exploration and exhibition of significant art from around the globe.
Easily visible from Grand River, the MSU Broad is located at 547 East
Circle Drive. Monday: Closed. Tuesday-Sunday,12:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m.
(517) 884-3900. For further information visit _www.broadmuseum.msu.edu._

THE MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY MUSEUM, is the science and culture museum
at Michigan State University and the state’s first Smithsonian
Institution affiliate. The MSU Museum features three floors and 15
galleries and changing exhibit spaces with collections and research
acquisitions, MSU faculty and student work, and traveling
exhibitions. Long-term exhibits and galleries are Heritage Hall, Hall of
World Cultures, Collections Connections, Animal Diversity, and Habitat
Hall, including the area’s only full-mounted dinosaur skeletons,
_Allosaurus_ and _Stegosaurus_. Changing exhibit galleries feature
different topics throughout the year. Located across from the
Main Library at 409 W. Circle Drive, it is open to the public free of
charge from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. weekdays, 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. on
Saturday and 1:00 to 5:00 p.m. on Sunday. Closed on holidays. Call (517)
355-2370 for information. Website: _www.museum.msu.edu_.

THE BUG HOUSE contains live insect displays, exhibits and “hands-on”
activities. The Bug House is located in 146 – 147 Natural Science
Building. For information or to arrange a visit call (517)
355-4662.Website: _www.ent.msu.edu/bughouse._

ABRAMS PLANETARIUM programs are held Friday and Saturday evenings and
Sunday afternoons. Admission is $4 for adults, $3.50 for students, and
$3 for those 12 or under. A free exhibit hall is open from 8:30 a.m. to
noon and 1:00 to 4:30 p.m. on weekdays. Located between Shaw Hall and
the Chemistry Building. For show information call (517)
355-4672. Website: _www.abramsplanetarium.org._ Monthly telescope
observing sessions are held at the MSU Observatory located at the corner
of Forrest and College Roads.

THE DEPARTMENT OF ART, ART HISTORY, AND DESIGN organizes exhibitions
featuring undergraduate and graduate students, alumni, and work
resulting from national and international juried exhibition calls in the
Kresge Art Center Galleries 101 & 114, MSU Union Art Gallery, and
off-campus at (SCENE) Metrospace. Each academic year, the department
hosts 15-20 free public visiting artist & scholar lectures. Annually the
department features undergraduate research in the Art History and Visual
Culture Symposium, the Apparel and Textile Design Fashion Show, and the
Undergraduate Juried Exhibition. Students completing their MFA present
their graduate student research each spring in the Master of Fine Arts
Exhibition at the Eli and Edythe Broad Art Museum. All students are
welcome to view exhibitions, attend lecture series events, and join in
activities offered by the department. For additional information call
(517) 355-7610, email art@msu.edu or visit _www.art.msu.edu._

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
