Spartan Life Student Handbook - University Activities Board

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
        -   Student Organizations
        -   Greek Affairs
        -   Service in Community, Service-Learning and Civic Engagement
        -   Multicultural Activities
        -   University Activities Board
        -   The Arts, Museums, Planetarium
        -   Radio
        -   Gardens, Farms, Green Spaces
        -   Religious Activities
        -   Lansing Area Activities
        -   The MSU Union
        -   What, Where and When
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Activities

> University Activities Board

[Click here to print this page]



UNIVERSITY ACTIVITIES BOARD


After classes and studying, what can you do to meet new people and have
fun? Check out the University Activities Board (UAB)!

UAB provides MSU with the best in campus entertainment throughout the
week and late-night Friday and Saturday. UAB offers a variety of social,
educational, multicultural and recreational programs; all planned by
students!

Events include comedians, live music, games, hypnotists, craft nights,
open mic nights and more.

All Undergraduate students are welcome to join;  just stop by our weekly
meeting Mondays at 7:00 p.m. UAB meets in Room 50 on the Ground Level of
the MSU Union. To check out what events are going on each week visit
_www.uabevents.com_, call us at (517) 355-3354, follow us on Snapchat,
Instagram, and Twitter @UABatMSU or “like” us at
_www.facebook.com/UABatMSU_.

Our office is located in Room 26, Ground Level, in the MSU Union.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
