Spartan Life Student Handbook - MSU Police

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
        -   MSU Police
        -   Bicycle Security
        -   Security Where You Live
        -   Personal Property
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Personal Security

> MSU Police

[Click here to print this page]



MSU POLICE


The department performs a variety of tasks for the benefit of individual
citizens, organizations, and institutional agencies that comprise the
University community. The department is as follows:

UNIFORM DIVISION – performs the patrol duties of a similarly sized
municipal department and is responsible for responding to any criminal
complaints on campus. The Uniform Division also manages the department’s
Community Team Policing Program. This program involves close interaction
between teams of officers and the community we serve. The MSU campus has
been divided into three geographic team areas that encompass the
residential neighborhood concept. Each team area connects with two
residential neighborhoods. The telephone number for non-emergencies is
(517) 355-2221. For emergencies only, call 9-1-1.

EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND SPECIAL EVENTS DIVISION – the MSU Police
Department has four Professional Emergency Managers. Emergency plans,
training and response for the University are continually being reviewed
and updated. The department works closely with the East Lansing Fire
Department and MSU Environmental Health and Safety Office. Michigan
State University has an extensive set of emergency management protocols
and published community safety information pertinent to emergency
situations. There is an active emergency management process for
organizing efforts to mitigate, prepare for, respond to, and recover
from a variety of hazards. Additionally, this division is responsible
for planning for traffic, security and parking associated with large
events such as football and basketball games and concerts.

THE PARKING DIVISION is responsible for Traffic Engineering and
enforcement of University parking regulations and ordinances. (More than
ninety-five percent of all parking violations are issued by student
employees.) The division issues permits for bicycles and parking permits
for motor vehicles operated on campus. It also acts as a communications
link between the community and the All-University Traffic and
Transportation Committee and the Student Traffic Appeals Court. For
information, call (517) 355-8440. Visit our website:
_www.police.msu.edu_.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
