Spartan Life Student Handbook - Personal Property

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
        -   MSU Police
        -   Bicycle Security
        -   Security Where You Live
        -   Personal Property
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Personal Security

> Personal Property

[Click here to print this page]



PERSONAL PROPERTY


Personal property, such as I-Pods, stereos, televisions, cameras and
calculators, should be marked for identification. Use of your driver’s
license number is recommended since social security numbers cannot be
traced in Michigan. Engraving tools may be checked out at the Police
Desk.

Do not take valuables into the intramural buildings as their security
cannot be guaranteed. Lockers are available for your use; bring your own
lock. Don’t take a chance by leaving valuables “on the sidelines.”

Other areas that are not safe to leave valuables unattended might
include study lounges, cafeterias, library, classes and computer labs,
etc.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
