Spartan Life Student Handbook - Security Where You Live

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
        -   MSU Police
        -   Bicycle Security
        -   Security Where You Live
        -   Personal Property
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Personal Security

> Security Where You Live

[Click here to print this page]



SECURITY WHERE YOU LIVE


Whether you live in a residence hall, an apartment, or a house, be
cautious about protecting your property and yourself within your living
space. MSU police indicate that most offenses against students in the
residence halls are “crimes of opportunity.” Wherever you live, denial
of opportunity for crime is key to your personal security.

1.  Always lock your door, even if you leave for “just a minute.” This
    is the single best deterrent to intruders.
2.  Never leave money, wallets, purses, ipads, cell phones, jewelry, and
    other small items of value lying visible in the room. Keep them out
    of sight. Conceal these items in places other than in your desk or
    dresser.
3.  Do not leave notes on your door announcing you are not at home.
4.  Do use the peep hole to avoid opening your door to strangers.
5.  Close your blinds and/or curtains at night.
6.  Do not take in overnight guests that you do not know.
7.  Do not carry a key chain with your name, address, or car license
    number on it.
8.  Do not let strangers into the building after closing.
9.  Do not prop exterior doors open after closing.
10. Work out an agreement with suitemates and/or neighbors to watch for
    suspicious activity or persons. Report anything suspicious to the
    police.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
