Spartan Life Student Handbook - MSU HealthTeam

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
        -   MSU Student Health Services
        -   MSU Counseling & Psychiatry Services (CAPS)
        -   MSU HealthTeam
        -   Other On-Campus Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Health Services

> MSU HealthTeam

[Click here to print this page]



MSU HEALTHTEAM


MSU HEALTHTEAM offers primary and specialty health care services to the
general public. MSU HealthTeam is comprised of approximately 250
providers from 14 clinical departments, as well as many allied health
professionals such as nurses, psychologists, social workers, therapists
and nutritionists. Service providers are affiliated with the College of
Human Medicine, the College of Nursing, and the College of Osteopathic
Medicine.

Providers serve the public at clinic locations throughout the greater
Lansing area and in Detroit. The largest site is the on-campus MSU
Clinical Center, which offers primary and specialty services, a
pharmacy, laboratory draw station and radiology services.

The MSU HealthTeam provides health care education to graduate physicians
in residency training and medical and nursing students. Under the
guidance of staff physicians and nurses, these students participate in
patient care programs.

Hours vary by practice location but are generally open from 8:00 a.m. to
5:00 p.m. weekdays. Some clinics have evening hours. Payment is due at
the time of service. If a patient is unable to pay at that time, a
payment arrangement will be made. Most types of insurance are accepted.

THE CLINICAL CENTER and other practice locations are accessible by bus
and have convenient parking. For more information call (517) 353-3000 or
1-800-353-3464. Website: _www.healthteam.msu.edu_.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
