Spartan Life Student Handbook - MSU Counseling & Psychiatry Services
(CAPS)

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
        -   MSU Student Health Services
        -   MSU Counseling & Psychiatry Services (CAPS)
        -   MSU HealthTeam
        -   Other On-Campus Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Health Services

> MSU Counseling & Psychiatry Services (CAPS)

[Click here to print this page]



MSU COUNSELING & PSYCHIATRY SERVICES (CAPS)


Located on the third floor of Olin Health Center, CAPS offers
time-limited psychological counseling to registered MSU students, and
psychiatry consultation and treatment to registered MSU students and
their spouses/partners. Any student registered for one or more credits
may be eligible for a consultation or initial assessment interview.
Additional services include group counseling, psychological testing;
multicultural counseling; substance abuse assessment and counseling; and
referral to area mental health professionals. The CAPS staff provides
racially responsive and culturally competent services. Extended hours
during the academic year: Monday-Thursday 8:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m. and
Friday 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Website: _www.counseling.msu.edu._

THE MSU SEXUAL ASSAULT PROGRAM provides immediate assistance to those
who have been traumatized by sexual violence. Educational programs
stress awareness and prevention of such assaults. 24 hour hotline (517)
372-6666, _www.endrape.msu.edu_.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
