Spartan Life Student Handbook - Other On-Campus Services

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
        -   MSU Student Health Services
        -   MSU Counseling & Psychiatry Services (CAPS)
        -   MSU HealthTeam
        -   Other On-Campus Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Health Services

> Other On-Campus Services

[Click here to print this page]



OTHER ON-CAMPUS SERVICES


THE COUPLE AND FAMILY THERAPY (CFT) CLINIC serves clients from all over
the Lansing area, as well as the MSU community. Our clinic specializes
in couples and families, but we also provide therapy services to
individuals, children, and adolescents, and university students and
their significant others. Our therapists take a rational view of every
client, and we look for solutions to problems in the context of personal
and relational strengths. We provide services on a sliding fee scale (as
low as $15 and depending on family income and size, with special fees
for MSU and local college students). Services are provided by CFT
doctoral students under the supervision of faculty in the MSU Couple and
Family Therapy program. The Clinic is located in Suite A-233 at the MSU
Clinical Center on Service Road between Hagadorn and Farm Lane. Our
therapists can schedule appointments Monday-Thursday from 9:00 a.m. to
7:00 p.m. and Friday from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Phone: (517) 432-2272.
Website: _https://hdfs.msu.edu/clinic_.

THE MSU PSYCHOLOGICAL CLINIC provides a range of psychological services
to the greater Lansing community including psychotherapy and
psychological assessment. While a wide array of services are offered,
some areas of specialization include assessment and treatment of autism
spectrum disorders, treatment for interpersonal problems, cognitive
behavioral therapy for children and adults, learning assessments, and
personality/diagnostic assessments. The Clinic is available to MSU
students and their families/children. Services are provided by advanced
clinical psychology doctoral students under the supervision of licensed
psychologists. Fees are based on a sliding scale according to income.
The Clinic is located in the Psychology Building (316 Physics Road). It
is open Monday-Thursday from 8:00 a.m.-8:00 p.m., Friday from 8:00
a.m.-5:00 p.m., and Saturdays by appointment. For more information visit
_psychology.msu.edu/clinic_ or call (517) 355-9564.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
