---
title: Basic Employment Commitment on an Academic Year Basis
---

::: {#body}
Faculty Handbook

**Basic Employment Commitment on an Academic Year Basis**

 Last updated: 1/1/1982

**IV. ACADEMIC HUMAN RESOURCES POLICIES *(Cont.)***

*The following policy was issued by the Office of the Provost on
December 8, 1981; it applies exclusively to individuals appointed or
changed to AN basis on or after January 1, 1982.*

All appointments, including those on an annual year (AN) basis, in the
tenure system, the academic specialist continuing appointment system,
and the librarian continuous appointment system, at Michigan State
University involve the University making a continuing basic employment
commitment to academic year (AY) appointments only. This policy is to
ensure that any individual employment commitment to an annual
appointment (AN) basis is justified by current unit missions,
programmatic needs, and the related responsibilities of individual
faculty and academic staff members. If unit missions and programmatic
needs change, the annual appointment basis may no longer be appropriate
and, consequently, the individual would then change to academic year
basis, which is the basic employment commitment for the academic
personnel systems designated above.

Subject to prior agreement between the Provost and relevant dean(s) or
separately reporting director(s), there may be exceptions to this policy
for specific colleges, departments, other units, and individuals. These
exceptions will be approved by the Provost prior to appointment via the
regular procedure authorizing academic positions. Justification for such
exceptions will be reviewed periodically based on the missions and
programmatic requirements of colleges, departments, other units, and the
specific responsibilities of individuals.

In some cases, because of unit requirements, a faculty or academic staff
member may serve his/her entire career at Michigan State University on
an annual appointment basis. In other cases, an individual may be
shifted from an AY to AN or an AN to AY appointment basis recurrently in
recognition of periodic changes in unit missions and programmatic
requirements. Some units may staff year-round mission and programmatic
responsibilities (either part-time or full-time) by appointing
individuals to summer session teaching, research, and service
appointments on a repetitive basis rather than appointing a faculty or
academic staff member on an AN basis. The provision of these assignment
options requires Office of the Provost approval and are to be subjected
to periodic reviews.

Individuals who are recruited into administrative positions at Michigan
State University, and who are appointed also in the tenure system,
academic specialist continuing appointment system, librarian continuous
appointment system, e.g., deans, chairpersons, directors and
coordinators, will be appointed with a continuing employment commitment
to an academic year appointment only. However, annual appointment basis
may be provided in recognition of administrative responsibilities and,
in addition, there may be an administrative salary increment related to
the administrative role. When such administrative responsibilities
cease, these faculty and academic staff members will revert to the basic
academic year appointment basis unless an AN appointment is specified by
unit missions and programmatic requirements (see paragraph two, above)
and any administrative increment in salary will cease. (For more
information relating to faculty members with administrative duties, see
policy entitled \"Salary, Appointment, and Faculty Status of Faculty
Members Who Assume Administrative Responsibilities.\")

Commitment to an AN appointment basis, if approved by the Provost, may
be without a specific ending date, for a specified period, subject to
renewal or on a \"rolling\" basis, e.g., initially for a 3- or 4- or
5-year period, with automatic annual renewal for additional 3- or 4- or
5-year periods unless notice is provided otherwise. Such commitments
must be approved by the appropriate chairperson(s), director(s), and
dean(s) and the Provost and must be communicated in writing to the
faculty or academic staff member prior to initial appointment on an AN
basis. In accordance with normal procedures, shifts from an AN to AY
appointment will normally occur only on August 16.

In view of the fact that changes in unit missions, programmatic needs
and individual responsibilities may, on occasion, result in shifts from
an annual to an academic year appointment basis, all individuals
appointed on an annual basis will be informed on the occasion of annual
salary increases of the applicable salary for both an annual and
academic year appointment basis. The AY salary is determined by
deducting the administrative increment, if any, from the annual salary
and computing an amount equal to 9/11 of the residual annual salary.
Deans and separately reporting directors have the responsibility to
ensure that unit administrators communicate this information to faculty
and academic staff members. Such an arrangement will provide affected
individuals a clear understanding of their salary status in the event of
a shift from AN to AY appointments and/or a shift from an administrative
assignment.

All letters of offer should indicate the University\'s basic employment
commitment to appointments in the tenure system, academic specialist
continuing appointment system, and librarian continuous appointment
system is on an academic year basis only. If prior agreement is reached
with the Provost and an annual appointment basis is appropriate, each
individual should be informed (1) that his/her initial appointment basis
is justified by specific unit missions and programmatic responsibilities
and the faculty or academic staff member\'s related duties, and (2) that
if unit mission and programmatic needs and the faculty or academic staff
member\'s responsibilities change, then the annual appointment would
change to an academic year basis which is the basic employment
commitment to individuals appointed in the designated academic personnel
system.\
\
[Back to Faculty
Handbook](https://www.hr.msu.edu/policies-procedures/faculty-academic-staff/faculty-handbook/4Section-HR-Policies.html)
:::

[©](http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/10?skin=oucampus&account=msuhr&site=Home&action=de&path=/policies-procedures/faculty-academic-staff/faculty-handbook/basic_employment_commitment.pcf)
