Spartan Life Student Handbook - Spartan Life Welcome Letter

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

[Click here to print this page]



SPARTAN LIFE WELCOME LETTER


August 22, 2016

Dear MSU Student:

_SPARTAN LIFE_ provides valuable and important information for your
engagement at Michigan State University. This handbook and resource
guide compiles much of the essential information you will need to
optimize your Spartan experience.

As an academic community, it is necessary to set standards that will
promote an environment conducive to learning. The first part of _SPARTAN
LIFE_ presents the policies, regulations and guidelines developed to
provide an atmosphere that furthers opportunities for intellectual and
personal development while protecting individual freedoms. As a student
you are encouraged to exercise your rights and you are expected to meet
your responsibility to adhere to the standards set. The second part of
this guide serves to inform you of the rules, regulations, rights and
responsibilities that have been established in the interest of all
members of the University community.

You are urged to become familiar with the many programs and services
that enhance the student experience at Michigan State University. As you
pursue your studies in the classroom, you will also have many
opportunities to learn from people of different cultural backgrounds, to
examine new philosophies, to develop new interests and skills, and to
prepare for active participation in a rapidly changing global society.
It is important you take the initiative to expand your horizons and to
take advantage of the programs and services that are available to help
ensure your success. Those in the various units and departments of
Student Affairs and Services, as well as many others across the
University, stand ready to assist you in this endeavor.

We appreciate the contributions of the students, faculty, and staff who
have made this publication possible and are proud of the important
activities, programs and services of the University they support and
deliver. It is our hope each of you will actively pursue the diverse
opportunities available for an exciting and rewarding student
experience.

Sincerely,

Denise B. Maybank, Ph.D
Vice President for Student Affairs and Services

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
