Spartan Life Student Handbook - Places to Look for On-Campus Jobs

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
        -   MSU Student Part Time Jobs and Internships
            -   Working at MSU
            -   Places to Look for On-Campus Jobs
            -   Summer Jobs and Internships
        -   Employment Verification for Student Employees
        -   Disabilities, Rehabilitation
        -   Michigan Right-To-Know Law
        -   Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993
        -   Rules Governing Personal Conduct of Student Employees
        -   Drug-Free Workplace/Drug-Free Schools
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Employment

> MSU Student Part Time Jobs and Internships

> Places to Look for On-Campus Jobs

[Click here to print this page]



PLACES TO LOOK FOR ON-CAMPUS JOBS


_MYSPARTANCAREER_ JOB POSTING SYSTEM: You can access
your _MySpartanCareer_ account through _careernetwork.msu.edu_. This
web-based service for MSU students lists part time jobs and internships,
both on- and off-campus. It also has full time job postings for after
you graduate. To get started, you first need to set up an account in the
system and upload a resume. In most cases, your resume serves as your
application for open positions! You can sign up as soon as you have gone
through AOP and are enrolled/registered.

MSU LIBRARIES (_http://studentjobs.lib.msu.edu_): Fill out the online
student employment application form and your application will be
forwarded to all branches of the library.

DIVISION OF RESIDENTIAL & HOSPITALITY SERVICES (_www.jobs.msu.edu_): The
Residential & Hospitality Services division hires many students at all
times of the year. Students can find a variety of jobs in residence
halls, dining halls, retail dining, or work in other locations on
campus.

KELLOGG HOTEL & CONFERENCE CENTER: Thank you for your interest in jobs
at Kellogg Hotel & Conference Center. We are excited you are exploring
hospitality careers at our hotel! We offer a collaborative and creative
work environment that gives you room to grow with us. Join a dedicated
team that loves what they do at Kellogg Hotel & Conference Center. Visit
_www.jobs.rhs.msu.edu._

BRESLIN STUDENT EVENTS CENTER: Breslin Student Events Center is the
proud home to the nationally acclaimed Men’s and Women’s Spartan
Basketball Teams, and hosts numerous concerts, sporting events, family
shows and conferences each year. If you’re looking for a job in an
exciting environment with flexible scheduling, then Breslin is the place
for you. We have various job positions available to fit all types of
students. Visit _www.jobs.rhs.msu.edu._

UNIVERSITY ADVANCEMENT: The MSU Greenline is the student-led voice of
the Annual Fund that raises money on behalf of MSU colleges and
programs. Contact University Advancement about the #BestJobOnCampus
at _http://greenline.msu.edu/_.

MSU POLICE DEPARTMENT (_www.police.msu.edu/studentjobs.asp_): The MSU
Police Department hires students to help with event parking, among other
jobs. These jobs are scheduled by the event rather than offering the
same work hours each week.

INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING AND FACILITIES: MSU Infrastructure Planning and
Facilities builds and maintains the physical environment for the
university’s education, research and outreach missions, and directs the
university’s sustainability initiative and long-term infrastructure
planning goals. The unit’s experienced team of professionals keeps MSU
running 24/7/365, delivering an immense menu of services and providing
expert analysis for university objectives. Visit the MSU IPF website for
additional information. Student employment and internship opportunities
at IPF will be posted at _www.ipf.msu.edu/jobs_.

WHARTON CENTER: MSU students may apply for positions working in the box
office or positions involved in the activities of house management.
Download an application at _www.whartoncenter.com/about/employment._

STATE NEWS: Job opportunities in writing, reporting, editing,
photojournalism, video production, online development, advertising
sales, ad campaign creation, graphic design, office management,
newspaper delivery and other aspects of the media industry. Hiring is
usually done the semester prior to employment. Call (517) 295-1680 or go
to _www.statenews.com/index.php/page/work_ for more information.

CULINARY SERVICES: Culinary Services employs more than 3,500 students in
a variety of positions ranging from entry-level food service and
baristas to student supervisors and crew leads. Our jobs offer student
team members a work schedule that accommodates classes and activities, a
supportive social environment that fosters the development of essential
career skills, a full-time staff that is committed to your personal
success and convenience of working close to where you live! Think of us
as another classroom – one where you get paid to have fun, make
connections with other future leaders and set yourself up for success
after graduation. To apply for one of our dining halls, Sparty’s, MSU
Bakers, the Eat at State ON-THE-GO food truck, Starbucks or Concessions,
visit _www.jobs.msu.edu._

A SUMMER EMPLOYMENT FAIR is held each February for students interested
in seasonal and career-related work opportunities. (Specific 2017 date
TBD.)

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
