Spartan Life Student Handbook - Bicycles

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
        -   Vehicles
        -   Bicycles
        -   Bus Services On-Campus
        -   Lansing Regional Bus Service
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Transportation

> Bicycles

[Click here to print this page]



BICYCLES


All bicycles ridden on campus must be registered. Please refer to
“Bicycles” in Part III of this book for a summary of University
Ordinances pertaining to bicycles on the campus. Also, see the section
on “Personal Security” for tips on preventing bicycle theft.

If you need a bike, the MSU Surplus regularly sells bicycles that have
been abandoned, stolen and not claimed, or otherwise separated from
their owners. Bikes are individually priced and are available on a
first-come, first-served basis. Call the MSU Surplus, (517) 355-0364 for
details.

Bike racks are provided on all CATA fixed route buses. See Lansing
Regional Bus Service for more information.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
