Spartan Life Student Handbook - Lansing Regional Bus Service

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
        -   Vehicles
        -   Bicycles
        -   Bus Services On-Campus
        -   Lansing Regional Bus Service
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Transportation

> Lansing Regional Bus Service

[Click here to print this page]



LANSING REGIONAL BUS SERVICE


CATA is also the Greater Lansing Area bus service that serves MSU, East
Lansing, Lansing, and Delta, Delhi, Lansing, and Meridian townships and
includes service to the area’s malls – Eastwood Towne Center, Lansing
Mall, Meridian Mall and Frandor. Service operates seven days a week.
Hours vary. Commuter limited-stop service into downtown Lansing is
provided weekdays during morning and evening rush hours. Buses depart
Mason and Webberville with limited stops to make for a faster commute.

ACCESSIBILITY: All buses are equipped with wheelchair lifts or ramps.
CATA’s “Spec-Tran” provides curb-to-curb service for people with
disabilities who are unable to use fixed routes both on- and off-campus.
See Paratransit Service.

BIKE RACKS are provided on all large fixed route buses and select small
buses so you can take your bike with you at no charge. Each rack
accommodates three bikes.

BUS SCHEDULES are available online at _www.cata.org_, on campus at most
MSU Residence Halls and key campus buildings, at the MSU-CATA
Transportation Center, on all CATA buses, and at businesses throughout
the greater Lansing area.

CATANOW provides immediate access to real-time projected departures from
any of CATA’s 1,300 plus bus stops. Actual departures – tracked via GPS
– are provided within 15 minutes of a bus departing a stop. It gives
customers the freedom to plan their trips when and where they want,
utilize their time more efficiently and reduce their dependency on
published schedules.

Obtain your bus stop number posted on every stop or on _cata.org_,
request departures via text, email or website. For details, visit
_catanow.org._

FARES: $1.25 for adults, 60¢ for students with valid school ID. Passes
are also available at special student rates.

For additional information email info@cata.org, call (517) 394-1000, or
MI Relay Center Voice TDD: (800) 649-3777. Web site: _www.cata.org_.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
