Spartan Life Student Handbook - Facilities

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
        -   Recreational Sports and Fitness Services
            -   Facilities
            -   Special Population Programs
            -   Fun vs. Formal Competition
            -   Available Sports for Organized Competition
            -   Club Sports
        -   Other On-Campus Recreational Opportunities
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Recreation

> Recreational Sports and Fitness Services

> Facilities

[Click here to print this page]



FACILITIES


Three buildings; IM Sports-West, IM Sports-Circle, and IM Sports-East,
house most of the indoor activity areas. Additional space is available
in Jenison Field House and Demonstration Hall. There are three indoor
swimming pools, one outdoor pool, indoor and outdoor tracks, tennis
courts, as well as numerous other courts. Many of the outdoor courts and
playing fields are lighted. We are proud to announce the renovation of
our Water Sport facility at Lake Lansing. The MSU Sailing Center has
rentals for standup paddleboard, canoe and kayaks.

Facilities are available every day and may be used by any student,
faculty, or staff member upon presentation of a valid MSU photo
identification. Spouses and children are also welcome during designated
hours and within certain guidelines. Since use is very high,
reservations are suggested for most facilities. The reservation numbers
are (517) 355-5250 for IM-West, (517) 355-4711 for IM-Circle, and (517)
353-3223 for IM-East. Towel and locker services are available for a
small fee and a variety of equipment can be checked out simply by
presenting valid University identification.

The fitness centers at the IM-West and IM-East are open every day for
students-faculty-staff use. A daily fee is charged or semester/annual
membership may be purchased.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
