Spartan Life Student Handbook - Fun vs. Formal Competition

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
        -   Recreational Sports and Fitness Services
            -   Facilities
            -   Special Population Programs
            -   Fun vs. Formal Competition
            -   Available Sports for Organized Competition
            -   Club Sports
        -   Other On-Campus Recreational Opportunities
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Recreation

> Recreational Sports and Fitness Services

> Fun vs. Formal Competition

[Click here to print this page]



FUN VS. FORMAL COMPETITION


You can choose your level of involvement. Play or swim, occasionally,
just for fun, enter a tournament for an individual sport, join one of
the 28 Sports Clubs, try a Zumba or Yoga class, or participate on a team
in one of the four leagues. Intramurals are a fun way to stay active and
compete against Spartans right here on campus. For a full list of sports
we offer each semester look at the intramurals tab at
_www.recsports.msu.edu_ or visit imleagues.com/Michigan State.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
