Spartan Life Student Handbook - Special Population Programs

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
        -   Recreational Sports and Fitness Services
            -   Facilities
            -   Special Population Programs
            -   Fun vs. Formal Competition
            -   Available Sports for Organized Competition
            -   Club Sports
        -   Other On-Campus Recreational Opportunities
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Recreation

> Recreational Sports and Fitness Services

> Special Population Programs

[Click here to print this page]



SPECIAL POPULATION PROGRAMS


Recreational Sports and Fitness Services celebrates the diversity
inherent in our large international institution. To accommodate the
recreational needs of this community, special programs such as
Self-Defense, Family Recreation, and Special Health and Fitness
activities are offered. Adaptive Recreation programming is also
available. We offer fourteen adaptive recreation opportunities on campus
such as, Wheel Chair Floor Hockey, Wheel Chair Tennis, Boccia Ball, Hand
Cycling and Table Tennis. Be sure to check out one of the new handcycles
at the MSU Bike Share locations across campus! Please go to our website
for schedules and details: _www.recsports.msu.edu/adaptive._ In
addition, the Department offers a variety of student employment
opportunities in all program areas. Students are encouraged to call the
IM Sports-West at (517) 355-5250 for information regarding any of these
programs. Additional information can also be found on our website at
_www.recsports.msu.edu_.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
