Spartan Life Student Handbook - Club Sports

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
        -   Recreational Sports and Fitness Services
            -   Facilities
            -   Special Population Programs
            -   Fun vs. Formal Competition
            -   Available Sports for Organized Competition
            -   Club Sports
        -   Other On-Campus Recreational Opportunities
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Recreation

> Recreational Sports and Fitness Services

> Club Sports

[Click here to print this page]



CLUB SPORTS


Club Sports, administered through the Recreational Sports and Fitness
Services department, are Registered Student Organizations (RSO) through
the Department of Student Life. These are student lead teams who travel
and compete against other colleges and universities. Each team pays
their way and no money is received through the Rec Sports Dept. so they
all pay dues. Clubs vary in size, from less than 20 participants to over
80. Depending on the extent of their travel and pay grade of coaches,
Club Sports may cost $50/year or several thousand dollars per year. Each
club sets their dues structure. The Club Sports Office is located in the
IM Sports-Circle. Go to _www.recsports.msu.edu_ and click on the Club
Sports link for a complete directory and contact information for current
clubs:
Baseball                                            Sailing
Competitive Cheer (All Girl)              Soccer (men)
Crew                                                 Soccer (women)
Dodgeball                                         Softball-Fast Pitch
(women)
Fencing                                            Table Tennis
Handball                                           Tae Kwon Do
Judo                                                 Triathlon Club
Kendo                                               Ultimate Frisbee
(men)
Lacrosse (men)                                 Ultimate Frisbee (women)
Lacrosse (women)                             Underwater Hockey
Pompon                                             Volleyball (men)
Roller Hockey                                     Volleyball (women)
Rugby (men)                                      Water Polo (men)
Rugby (women)                                  Water Polo (women)

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
