Spartan Life Student Handbook - Major Governing Groups

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
        -   Associated Students of MSU (ASMSU)
        -   Council of Graduate Students (COGS)
        -   Major Governing Groups
        -   Academic Governance
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Governance at MSU

> Major Governing Groups

[Click here to print this page]



MAJOR GOVERNING GROUPS


Major governing groups are all-University in scope but represent the
concerns of specific groups of students.

GREEK GOVERNING BOARDS. The Greek community is comprised of four major
governing boards, individually responsible for managing and providing
services and programs to their member organizations. The Greek governing
boards share an office in 325-326 Student Services
Building, _www.greeklife.msu.edu_.

INTERFRATERNITY COUNCIL (IFC). As the governing board for the 31 men’s
Greek letter organizations currently active on campus, the IFC provides
programs and services through its internal organizational structure
of nine elected executive officers and a number of appointed leadership
positions to more than 1,700 fraternity men.

NATIONAL PAN-HELLENIC COUNCIL (NPHC). The NPHC at MSU consists of the
local chapters of the 9 historically African-American Greek letter
organizations, affiliated with the National council. NPHC at MSU
consists of a seven member elected board and representatives from each
of the 9 member chapters. NPHC at MSU serves to coordinate service
projects, programs, events and activities of the council and to promote
inter-organizational cooperation and collaboration for more than 100
students who are members of its affiliated fraternities and sororities.

PANHELLENIC COUNCIL. Nine elected executive officers and other appointed
leadership positions assist the Panhellenic Council in providing
programs and services to the 14 women’s Greek letter organizations. The
Panhellenic Council actively promotes Greek life and women’s issues in
the campus community, coordinates the activities and programs of member
organizations, and plans major events and activities for 1,700 Greek
women.

MULTICULTURAL GREEK COUNCIL (MGC). Founded in April, 2000, IGC is the
umbrella for MSU’s Asian, Latino/Latina, and multicultural fraternities
and sororities. Four elected executive positions represent and
coordinate communication among the 8 member organizations involving more
than 100 men and women.

MSU STUDENT HOUSING COOPERATIVE (SHC) formerly known as Intercooperative
Council, governs the cooperative living units. Co-ops are student owned
and managed houses that contribute social benefits and economic savings
to the members. Located at 5141 E. Grand River, (517) 355-8313.
_www.msu.coop_.

OWEN GRADUATE ASSOCIATION (OGA) serves residents of Owen Hall through
its legislative, social, educational, and cultural programs. Elected
officers meet regularly and address hall and resident concerns, as well
as plan and finance hall activities. Contact the Community Director’s
Office, (517) 355-4210, for information.

THE RESIDENCE HALLS ASSOCIATION (RHA) is the voice and government for
on-campus residents (except Owen and Family Housing residents), and is
dedicated to improving the on-campus living experience and providing
many services to students. RHA provides services such as:

-   _Campus Center Cinemas –_ RHA provides the opportunity to watch
    movies right out of the theater on the weekends in various locations
    around campus. Admission is free.
-   _Health and Safety Programs_ – In collaboration with Olin Health
    Center, RHA offers cold and flu packs as well as condoms free of
    charge for RHA taxpayers.
-   _RHA TV and RHA On-Demand_ – Residents can tune in to channels 22.4
    and 22.5 (digital) or 11 and 12 (analog) at any time to see a number
    of scheduled movies that change every month or visit MSU On Demand
    from an MSU network and watch one of our movies.
-   _Special Events_ – Throughout the year, RHA puts on events such as
    concerts, comedians, carnivals, neighborhood events, and cultural
    events. RHA sponsors with many constituent groups and other student
    organizations to provide events.
-   _Funding for Hall Governments, Black Caucuses and LGBT*QQIAA+
    Caucuses_ – RHA provides a budget each semester for these
    organizations. In addition, groups can request funds through the
    Committee on Budget for special events and tangible items for
    residence hall use.

For more information about RHA, visit _RHA.msu.edu_, and follow us on
twitter @MSURHA, like us on _Facebook.com/MSURHA_, check us out on
_Instagram.com/MSURHA_. Also consider joining a Hall Government, a Black
Caucus, or an LGBT*QQIAA+ Caucus!

THE UNIVERSITY APARTMENTS COUNCIL OF RESIDENTS (UACOR) represents
undergraduate, graduate, faculty and staff residents of University
Apartments. The Council sponsors many activities and serves as an
advocate for residents with community agencies and University offices.
You can email UACOR at uacor@msu.edu for information, assistance or any
questions.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
