BYLA WS
of the MSU Council of Graduate Students
last amended November 9th, 2016 by the COGS Full Council
1. LEGITIMACY, JURISDICTION, AND OTHER GENERAL PROVERSIONS
1.1 Source of Power: 
The Council of Graduate Students (COGS) is a body whose power is derived solely from the graduate and professional students of Michigan State University and is, therefore, independent of The Graduate School.
1.2 Reversal of Prior Actions: 
Actions of COGS cannot be reversed except by referendum as provided for in the COGS Constitution (hereafter referred to as the Constitution) or by revocation by the COGS Full Council, except in the case of financial transactions that have already occurred, which may not be reversed.
1.3 Recognition of Jurisdiction of Judiciaries: 
Matters concerning referenda that are prohibited under Michigan State University regulations or the Constitution may be adjudicated by a judiciary under the auspices of The Graduate School provided the judiciary has adequate student representation. The adequacy of such representation will be deemed to be established if COGS agrees to send members to the judiciary at the initiation of proceedings.
1.4 Parliamentary Authority: 
The rules contained in the current edition of Robert's Rules of Order shall govern the organization in all cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with the Constitution, Bylaws or other rules promulgated by the Full Council.
2. DEFINITIONS
2.1 Full Council:
The Full Council is comprised of all Representative Members of the Council of Graduate Students as defined in Article 4A of the Constitution and in Subsection 2.5 of these bylaws.
2.2 Academic Year:
Academic Year shall begin on the first day of classes in the fall semester as defined by the official Michigan State University Academic Calendar, and shall run until one (1) day prior to the first day of classes the following fall semester.
2.3 Members of COGS:
Membership in COGS is open to all Michigan State University graduate and professional students who pay the COGS tax and do not receive a refund of that tax.
2.4 Representative Member:
The term “Representative Member” refers to any member who holds a position defined in
Page 1 of 15

Section 3.1 of the Constitution.
2.5 Particular Constituency:
A person shall be deemed to represent a particular constituency if that person is a non-officer representative member.
2.6 Fiscal Year:
COGS’ fiscal year shall begin on July 1st and end on June 30th of the following calendar year.
3. FULL COUNCIL MEMBERSHIP AND PROCEDURES 3.1 Membership
3.1.1 Voting Membership of the Full Council shall be defined as:
3.1.1.1 Representatives from each academic department (or their recognized alternates) who have presented themselves to COGS provided that voting privileges have not been suspended according to Section 4.5 of these Bylaws. If an academic department fails to elect a representative (and/or alternate) by the second meeting, or their voting privileges are suspended, they forfeit their voting privileges until they elect a representative and notify COGS.
3.1.1.2 Owing to the special nature of the medicine and law programs, and the difficulty of allocating seats to them given their structure, the professional students in the following colleges shall each be granted one voting seat:
• College of Human Medicine
• College of Osteopathic Medicine
• College of Veterinary Medicine
• College of Law
3.1.1.4 Subsection Deleted
History: Deleted Dec. 3, 2014 to comply with 3.1.1.6
3.1.1.3 Each multidisciplinary academic program that belongs to one or more colleges, but does not have a home academic department, shall be granted a voting seat. Representatives granted in this way are subject to the same conditions as departmental representatives in section 3.1.1.1. Programs belonging to departments will instead be represented by the departmental representative, as provided in section 3.1.1.1.
3.1.1.4 A standing committee, named the COGS Representation Committee, is hereby established and empowered to make recommendations to the Full Council for the granting of or removal of COGS representative membership for student organizations representing the diversity of graduate students at Michigan State University. This committee is tasked with creating and publicizing an application form to graduate and professional student organizations, registered through Student Life, representing diverse communities on campus to apply for a representative membership on the Full
Page 2 of 15

Council. This committee is charged with meeting once per semester and making a recommendation by the last meeting of the semester to the Full Council as to which organizations COGS Full Council should vote to have a representative member on the Full Council. In addition, the committee can determine if inactive organizations no longer represent their communities and recommend the removal of those seats or a change of designated organization. This bylaw empowers the Full Council to, at any time and without recommendation from any committee, grant voting membership and a seat on the Full Council to any university recognized student organization representing graduate and professional students on campus with a majority vote.
3.1.1.4.1 The adoption of this bylaw shall constitute the removal of bylaw 3.1.1.4. All student organizations under that bylaw are grandfathered in with representative members to the Full Council.
3.1.2 Non-voting members of the COGS Full Council shall be ex-officio for the purpose of quorum and shall include:
3.1.2.1 Graduate and professional students serving on a committee recognized by COGS who do not already have voting membership
3.1.2.2 The Parliamentarian
3.1.2.3 One representative from the Graduate Employees Union agreed on by the
Presidents of both organizations.
3.1.2.4 The Director of Event Planning. 4 REPRESENTATIVE MEMBERS
4.1 Each Representative Member (or her/his recognized alternate) must attend at least two-thirds of all Full Council meetings each academic year. Attendance shall only be counted as the presence of the Representative Member (or her/his recognized alternate) during the entirety of the Full Council meeting.
4.2 Each new Representative Member shall be formally introduced to the Council of Graduate Students during the first Full Council meeting attended by that member.
4.3 Each Representative Member must serve as an active member on at least one committee recognized by COGS. Committee membership must start no later than the second full month as a Representative Member. Committees are defined in Section 8 of these Bylaws.
4.4 Each Representative Member is responsible for establishing and maintaining communication with their constituents and effectively communicating any needs or concerns to the Full Council. In this role, Representative Members are also responsible for informing their constituents of matters discussed in COGS meetings.
4.5 Failure to meet either of the conditions set forth in Sections 4.1 or 4.3 shall result in notification of the represented department Graduate Student Organization President, or individual serving a similar function, as to said Representative Member's failure of
Page 3 of 15

responsibility and consequent suspension of all voting privileges and removal from committees. This suspension will lift when COGS receives written notification of reevaluation or replacement of the offending Representative Member by said Representative Member's constituency.
4.6 No person shall ever be entitled to cast more than one vote.
4.7 No person may hold more than one seat as a representative of a particular constituency at any
time nor hold more than one officer seat on a permanent basis.
4.8 No person may hold as seat as an officer and as a representative of a particular constituency simultaneously unless a replacement representative for that constituency cannot be found.
5 EXECUTIVE BOARD
5.1 The Executive Board shall be comprised of the elected and appointed officers of COGS. The duties of the Executive Board shall be to transact routine business between meetings, prepare agendas for meetings, and to act in emergencies. The Executive Board will report all actions at the next scheduled Full Council meeting. The Executive Board will meet at the call of the President or upon written request of any three members. Five members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of all business. Any official action taken by the Executive Board shall be subject to approval of the Full Council. The Executive Board shall act in accordance with any previously established positions of COGS provided these matters relate specifically to the matter under discussion. The Executive Board may not spend any funds unless such expenditure has been specifically appropriated by a vote of the Full Council.
5.2 In the event of a permanent vacancy in any elected office of the Council of Graduate Students, said vacancy shall be filled by Special Election by the Full Council’s second meeting from the occurrence of such vacancy.
5.3 In the event of a permanent vacancy in any appointed office of the Council of Graduate Students, said vacancy shall be filled by Special Election by the Full Council’s second meeting from the occurrence of such vacancy. If circumstances beyond control prevent filling the vacancy in that time, the vacancy must be filled as soon as possible.
5.4 Any elected Officer may be recalled by a vote of at least two-thirds of the entire Voting Membership of the Full Council. Motion for recall must be made by petition of ten percent of the Representative members. A vote on said motion shall not be scheduled until at least one scheduled Full Council meeting has passed. The officer in question shall receive immediate written notification of said motion.
5.5 Officers are subject to the Representative member responsibilities given in Section 4 of these Bylaws.
5.6 In order to ensure that all areas of the university have opportunity to have representation on the executive board, no single college of the university shall be allowed to occupy more than four of the eight seats. In the case that an election is held which results in such a state, a secondary election will be held to select among the members of the college in question. Each
Page 4 of 15

voting member of the Full Council will have four votes to divide between four of the candidates in question, resulting in the top four individuals who will retain the seats to which they were elected. Those below this cutoff will relinquish their position to the individual who received the second most votes in the original election. Failing this (e.g. the member with the second most votes declines or has already accepted another seat on the executive board), a further sequence of nominations and election for this position will occur.
5.7 In the event of a vacancy in any Executive Board position, the sitting members of the Executive Board may appoint an interim to serve until a permanent replacement can be properly selected.
5.8 For the purpose of chairing the Executive Board, the order of succession shall follow the order established for chairing the Full Council.
6 OFFICERS 6.1 President
6.1.1 Shall serve in an overall organizing role for the Council of Graduate Students. He/she shall preside as the Chair for all Full Council and Executive Board meetings, enforcing the adherence to the COGS Constitution, Bylaws, and Robert's Rules of Order where applicable. The President shall not enter into debate while seated as Chair. The President's right to vote shall be an option and he/she may only vote when ballots are cast, or in the event of a tie.
6.1.2 Shall be kept informed of the actions and discussions of all Committees, and may serve as an additional non-voting ex-officio member of any COGS Committee
6.1.3 Shall have the option to serve as one of the representatives to the University Committee on Graduate Studies without having to be elected to the committee by the Full Council. Once all the seats on the committee have been filled, this officer can no longer choose to join until a seat becomes vacant again. 
6.1.4 Shall directly oversee the annual review of the COGS Employees. 6.1.5 Shall, along with the Treasurer, oversee COGS’ endowment(s).
6.1.6 Shall have the option to be one of the graduate representatives to the University Council without having to be elected to the council by the Full Council. Once all the seats on the committee have been filled, this officer can no longer choose to join until a seat becomes vacant again.
6.2 Vice President for Internal Affairs
6.2.1 Shall see that the COGS office maintains a list of all departments and entities eligible for Full Council membership.
Page 5 of 15

6.2.2 Shall provide and receive applications to recognized committees and forward nominations, as allowed by COGS and University regulations, to the Full Council.
6.2.3 Shall see that the COGS office maintains a list of current committees recognized by COGS which shall include contact information and meeting schedule for each committee.
6.2.4 Shall coordinate with COGS Employees to direct the day to day functioning of the office of the Council of Graduate Students.
6.2.5 Shall have the option to serve as a representative to the University Committee on Academic Governance without having to be elected to the committee by the Full Council. Once all the seats on the committee have been filled, this officer can no longer choose to join until a seat becomes vacant again.
6.2.6 May serve on any University Committee as a temporary representative, except on Standing Committees of the University Council. 
6.2.7 Shall be responsible for obtaining and reviewing reports on the activity of the following committees:
• University Committee on Academic Governance
• All-University Student Judiciary
• Anti-Discrimination Judicial Board
• Student Faculty Judiciary
• University Graduate Judiciary
• University Graduate-Professional Judiciary
• University Student Appeals Board
• COGS Constitution and Bylaws Committee
• Database Subcommittee of the Communications and Computer Systems
Advisory  Committee
• Instructional Computing Committee
• Athletic Council
• East Lansing University Student Commission
• University Committee on Curriculum
• University Committee Faculty Tenure
• Accommodating Technology Committee
• University Committee on the Library
• The Steering Committee
• University Committee on Student Affairs
• University Committee on International Studies and Program
6.2.8 Shall have the right to serve as a non-voting ex-officio member of any COGS committee.
6.2.9 Shall serve as the non-voting Chair of the Representative Committee.
Page 6 of 15

6.3 Vice President for External Affairs
6.3.1 Shall have the option to serve as one of the Graduate Representatives to the University Committee on Graduate Studies without having to be elected to the committee by the Full Council. Once all the seats on the committee have been filled, this officer can no longer choose to join until a seat becomes vacant again. 
6.3.2 Shall be responsible for obtaining and reviewing reports on the activity of the following committees:
• University Committee on Graduate Studies
• Women’s Advisory Committee to the Provost
• Women’s Advisory Committee to the Vice President for Student Affairs
• President’s Advisory Committee on Disability Issues
• Michigan State University Student Food Bank
• COGS Graduate Welfare Committee
• Department of Police and Public Safety Oversight Committee
• United Way Steering Committee
• Women’s Organizational Coordinating Council
• University Committee on Honors Program
• Insurance Advisory Group
• MSU Food Advisory Committee
• University Council
• University Committee on Out-of-State Fees
• All-University Traffic Committee
• Olin Advisory Board
• University Activities Advisory Board
• University Committee on Undergraduate Education
• Community Relations Outreach and Membership Committee
6.3.3 Shall serve as a liaison on behalf of COGS with national graduate education advocacy coalitions and organizations.
6.3.4 Shall have the option to be one of the graduate representatives to the University Council without having to be elected to the council by the Full Council. Once all the seats on the committee have been filled, this officer can no longer choose to join until a seat becomes vacant again.
6.3.5 Shall serve as the liaison between the Council of Graduate Students and appropriate State, Local, and Federal agencies, and as the liaison to the University Office of Governmental Affairs.
6.3.6 Shall, in consultation with the COGS Executive Board and Full Council, coordinate the philanthropic efforts of the Council of Graduate Students 
Page 7 of 15

6.4 Recording Secretary
6.4.1 The duties of the Recording Secretary include the preparation of a detailed summary, including the attendance of both the executive board and voting members, of the minutes of all Full Council meetings and Executive Board meetings to be approved at the next respective meeting and filed ad infinitum in the COGS office. The Recording Secretary shall, within seven calendar days following each Full Council meeting, make available to the COGS office a copy of that meeting’s minutes. These minutes will be posted on the COGS website. The Recording Secretary shall also prepare a list of highlights from the meeting to aid representative members in distributing information to their constituents. Additionally, the Recording Secretary shall handle the distribution of all general information to COGS and the Representative Members.
6.4.2 Shall ensure that the COGS office maintains the COGS Web Site. 
6.4.3 Shall be responsible for the public announcement of all Full Council meetings
pursuant to Section 3 of these Bylaws.
6.4.4 Shall be responsible for monitoring Representative Member responsibilities pursuant to Section 4 of these Bylaws. This includes recording and reviewing attendance at Full Council meetings and member activity on committees.
6.4.5 Shall maintain, in coordination with COGS employees, an up-to-date roster of the membership of the Full Council including membership status and contact information.
6.5 Treasurer 
6.5.1 Shall serve as the non-voting Chair of the Finance Committee pursuant to Section
8.2.1.1 of these Bylaws.
6.5.2 Shall, along with the President, oversee COGS’ endowment(s). 
6.5.3 Shall, in coordination with the COGS Employees, prepare a monthly report of the revenues, expenditures, and balances of COGS, and present for approval of the same at each Full Council meeting.
6.5.4 Shall have the option to serve as the COGS representative on the MSU Radio Board without having to be elected to the board by the Full Council, and schedule timely meetings between representatives of The Impact 89FM student radio station and the COGS Finance Committee. Once all the seats on the committee have been filled, this officer can no longer join until a seat becomes vacant again.
6.6 Executive Liaison to the College of Law
6.6.1 Shall serve as a voting liaison to the executive board bringing concerns of students in the College of Law to the attention of the Full Council.
Page 8 of 15

6.6.2 Shall be a member of the College of Law chosen by Full Council Elections from nominees selected by the College of Law Student Bar Association.
6.7 Executive Liaison to the Colleges of Medicine 
6.7.1 Shall serve as a voting liaison to the executive board bringing concerns of students
in the Colleges of Medicine to the attention of the Full Council.
6.7.2 Shall be responsible for obtaining and reviewing reports on the activity of the following committees:
• The University Committee on Research Involving Human Subjects 
6.7.3 Shall be a member of the Colleges of Medicine chosen by Full Council Elections
from nominees selected by the Council of Medical Students (COMS) 6.8 Parliamentarian 
6.8.1 There shall be a Parliamentarian appointed by the Executive Board and approved by the Full Council.
6.8.2 The Parliamentarian shall be a non-voting member of the Executive Board and the COGS Full Council.
6.8.3 The role of the Parliamentarian shall be restricted to advising on points of order or procedure.
6.8.4 The Parliamentarian shall chair the Constitution and Bylaws Committee. 6.9 Director of Event Planning 
6.9.1 There shall be a Director of Event Planning appointed by the Executive Board and approved by the Full Council.
6.9.2 The Director of Event Planning shall be a non-voting member of the Executive Board and the COGS Full Council.
6.9.3 The Director of Event Planning shall coordinate and plan COGS events within the guidelines of COGS, with the direction of the COGS Executive Board, and with the approval of the Full Council.
6.9.4 The Director of Event Planning shall be responsible for obtaining, in coordination with the Executive Board, all permits and addressing all safety concerns for all events.
7 FULL COUNCIL MEETINGS
7.1 The Full Council shall meet at least eight (8) times per year as required by the Constitution.
Full Council Meetings shall not adjourn until all items on the current meeting agenda have
Page 9 of 15

been addressed. All regularly scheduled Full Council meetings shall be open to the public and shall be publicly announced, as to date, time, and place, during the week prior to the meeting.
7.2 Quorum 
Quorum for the transaction of any and all business at a Full Council meeting shall be 40% of the Total Voting Membership. Quorum shall be recalculated at the second full council meeting of each and every academic year. Any motion brought up under new business during a special meeting which does not have quorum shall be deferred for a vote until the next regularly scheduled Full Council meeting of COGS.
7.3 Special Meetings 
A special meeting of the Full Council may also be called by petition of at least 20% of all graduate and professional students represented by COGS (pursuant to the Constitution), the majority of the Executive Board, or the majority of the Full Council.
7.4 Voting  
7.4.1 A simple majority of voting members present at any full council meeting with quorum shall be sufficient to pass any motion using standard parliamentary procedures unless otherwise specified in these Bylaws, the Constitution, or a Code of Operations of COGS.  
7.4.2 In cases where a vote of the entire Voting Membership of the Full Council is required, a cumulative vote may be taken until the required number of total eligible members has voted to pass or to defeat the motion. Votes shall be taken over the course of up to 4 regular full council meetings within an academic year. A roll call vote shall be taken at the first meeting, with a signed, written vote of the remaining eligible voting members taken between meetings and at sign-in over the next 3 meetings if necessary. Between meetings signed ballots may be cast at the COGS office and signed ballots may be collected by mail.
7.5 All legislation to be introduced at Full Council shall, to the extent possible, be disseminated electronically in advance in a format that is easily amendable using a software program widely available to members.
7.6 For the purposes of chairing the Full Council, the order of succession shall be as follows:
1. President
2. Vice President for Internal Affairs
3. Vice President for External Affairs
4. Treasurer
5. Parliamentarian
7.7 When
and presented on screen while those motions are being discussed.
possible, the text of main motions and motions to amend main motions will be typed
Page 10 of 15

8 COMMITTEES  8.1 Committee Activity
8.1.1 The Council of Graduate Students recognizes all committees listed in these Bylaws as well as committees, which are recognized by the Full Council, including ad hoc committees of COGS. Any COGS member, defined for this purpose as a COGS fee paying graduate student, is eligible to serve on a committee recognized by COGS, in accordance with any applicable eligibility requirements of that committee.
8.1.2 Nominations for Committee Representatives to COGS Committees and to the University Council and Standing Committees of the University Council shall be submitted by the Vice President for Internal Affairs for approval by the Full Council. 
8.1.3 Nominations for Committee Representatives to committees where COGS does not have the authority to make appointments shall be submitted by the Vice President for Internal Affairs for approval by the Full Council and forwarded to the appropriate body upon approval.
8.1.4 The term of office of Committee Representatives shall be for one year, commencing on the day after the first regularly scheduled Full Council meeting of the summer semester and terminating at the following year’s first regularly scheduled Full Council meeting of the summer semester unless otherwise specified in these Bylaws.
8.1.5 Should a committee representative position become vacant or otherwise be created during a term of office, the vacancy shall be filled in accordance with these Bylaws.
8.1.6 It shall be the responsibility of individual committee members to provide a temporary alternate, when allowed, in the event of their pending absence at any single committee meeting, with the exception of committee Chairs whose temporary alternate shall be appointed by the President. If any committee member fails to attend more than two committee meetings in one term the Full Council may remove them from their position.
8.1.7 The Chairs, of those Committees which have Chairs, shall be held responsible for the assurance that the said Committee fulfills its duties and responsibilities. The Chairs are also responsible for ensuring that records of committee activity, especially any financial activity, are kept in the COGS office.
8.1.8 Any Committee Representative may be removed from the position for reasons of malfeasance by a two-thirds vote of the Full Council at a meeting provided this Committee Representative was notified of impeachment at least two weeks prior to the meeting. This notice shall include the charges, unless protected by law, and date of the proceedings, and shall be signed by the Executive Board.
8.1.9 Unless otherwise specified in the Constitution or Bylaws, all chairs of COGS committees must be appointed by the Full Council.
Page 11 of 15

8.1.10 Each committee shall be responsible for interpreting their own internally adopted rules except to the extent that they conflict with the constitution, bylaws, or other rules promulgated by the Full Council.
8.1.11 In the case of the temporary absence of a Council of Graduate Students committee chair, the chair shall appoint an alternate from among the committee’s membership.
8.1.12 In the event of the permanent vacancy of a COGS committee chair, the appointed vice chair shall serve as chair until a replacement is duly appointed. In the event that no vice chair has been named, the Vice President for Internal Affairs, or in his absence the President, may name a temporary chair from among the committee’s membership to serve until a replacement has been duly appointed.
8.1.13 All groups created by the Full Council, Executive Board, or any subset of either, for the purposes of conducting business of COGS, representing COGS, advising COGS, or any other purpose directly benefiting COGS, shall be defined as committees.
8.2 Committees of the Council of Graduate Students
8.2.1 Standing Committees of COGS Standing Committees of COGS shall each have a
Code of Operations and shall be responsible for adhering to this Code of Operations. 8.2.1.1 Finance Committee
8.2.1.1.1 The Finance Committee shall meet at least one week prior to the next scheduled Full Council meeting to review requests for funds. The Treasurer shall be the Chair and a non-voting member of the Finance Committee. The Chair of this committee will submit, at each Full Council meeting, all recommendations for funding forwarded by the Finance Committee. All such recommendations shall be subject to the approval of the Full Council. There shall be exactly five voting members of the Finance Committee, each from a different department, and representing at least three University Colleges.
8.2.1.1.2 The Finance Committee shall also be charged with adhering to various funding guidelines approved by the Full Council. These guidelines shall detail not only the procedures that the committee must follow, but shall also detail the eligibility, regulations and restrictions for obtaining COGS funds, as well as the requirements for reimbursement. The funding guidelines may only be amended by the Full Council. The guidelines shall be made available to all organizations and individuals seeking funding and shall become the reference for any matters of dispute.
8.2.1.1.3 The term of office for the finance committee members shall begin the day after the first Full Council meeting of the Fall Semester and shall end on the first Full Council meeting of the following Fall Semester.
8.2.1.1.4 Quorum for the Finance committee shall be a majority of its voting
Page 12 of 15

members. Voting rights can not be transferred to any other person. 8.2.1.2 Graduate Welfare Committee
8.2.1.2.1 There shall be a Graduate Welfare Committee which shall review and consider issues pertaining to the welfare of all graduate students. This committee will be convened to address issues at a call of the Full Council or the Vice President for External Affairs. The Vice President for External Affairs will chair this committee.
8.2.1.2.2 It shall be the duty of the Graduate Welfare Committee, if requested by the Full Council, to conduct a poll of the graduate students as to their opinion of issues as per the request, employing whatever means of polling (phone, electronic, mail, etc.) the committee deems most efficient.
8.2.1.2.3 Additionally, the Graduate Welfare Committee shall be charged with investigating and compiling information necessary for COGS to address issues pertaining to Graduate Assistants, except in cases where prevented by a collective bargaining agreement, and to act in an advisory capacity to the Executive Board.
8.2.1.2.4 Further, if necessary or relevant, it shall be their responsibility to request a listing of all Graduate Assistants from the University, including appointment levels and classification by department and college.
8.2.1.3 Constitution and Bylaws Committee
8.2.1.3.1 There shall be a Constitution and Bylaws Committee, which shall be assembled as needed, whose duty shall be to conduct a review of the Constitution and Bylaws in operation and to propose such amendments to those documents as necessary.
8.2.1.3.2 At least three and no more than five Members of COGS shall serve on this committee. 
8.2.1.3.3 The COGS Parliamentarian shall sit on this committee and will act as non-voting committee chair to ensure that changes and updates to these documents will not be in conflict with parliamentary procedure.
8.2.1.3.4 This committee shall also be charged with the validation of any redress or constitutional amendment petitions.
8.2.1.3.5 All original amended and ratified copies of the Constitution and Bylaws of the Council of Graduate Students shall be kept on file in the COGS office ad infinitum. Additionally, this Committee may request that the current versions of the Constitution and Bylaws be published as part of the Graduate Student Handbook.
Page 13 of 15

8.2.1.3.6 The Constitution & Bylaws Committee shall be responsible for interpreting the constitution, bylaws and all other rules promulgated by the Full Council. It shall also have the authority to determine whether rules adopted by committees are inconsistent with the constitution, bylaws, or any other rules promulgated by the Full Council.
8.2.2 Ad-Hoc Committees 
Ad-Hoc Committees of COGS may be established as needed by the Full Council.
8.3 University Committees 
8.3.1 University Standing Committees
8.3.1.1 All Representatives of Standing Committees of the University shall vote in accordance with previously established positions of the Council of Graduate Students provided that these positions specifically relate to the matter under discussion.
8.3.1.2 At least one representative to The Steering Committee must be a member of the COGS Executive Board.
8.3.2 University Ad-Hoc Committees
8.3.2.1 The Executive Board shall, with majority approval of the Council of Graduate Students, appoint graduate student representatives to University Ad-Hoc Committees when requested.
8.4 While it is the responsibility of each representative member of COGS to serve on at least one committee as per section 4.3 of these bylaws, it is also recognized that no single representative or group of representatives shall serve on committees disproportional to their abilities and representation. Thus, no single representative shall be allowed to serve on any more than four (4) committees outlined in these bylaws.
8.4.1 However, owing to the fact that open committee seats limit the ability for the voice of graduate students as a whole to be heard, exception to the above (8.4) can be made if committee seats remain open after the second full council meeting of the academic year.
9 JUDICIARY
9.1 The Council of Graduate Students supports the existence of an All University Student  
Judiciary as defined in the Academic Freedom for Students at Michigan State University.
9.2 In a judiciary supported by the Council of Graduate Students, the term of office of COGS representatives to the judiciary shall be stated and binding at the time of appointment.
9.3 Any COGS representative to a judiciary may be recalled by a two-thirds vote of the voting membership of the Council of Graduate Students. The impeachment motion must be signed by at least ten Representative members at least one Full Council meeting and an additional
Page 14 of 15

two weeks prior to the meeting at which the vote is to be taken. The person in question shall receive immediate written notification of the motion.
10 TAXATION
10.1 By the first day of each academic year, it is required that any graduate or graduate- professional organization that collects taxes from its members in the name of the Council of Graduate Students submit to the Treasurer of the Council of Graduate Students:
• A financial statement from the previous academic year,
• Copies of receipts from the previous academic year,
• An itemized budget and any receipts for the upcoming academic year.  
10.2 Failure to comply with these regulations will cause suspension of the organization's right to tax its members in the name of the Council of Graduate Students. This suspension will be decided upon by a majority vote of the Executive Board and Finance Committee combined, in consultation with the University Vice President of Student Affairs and Services, or Designee.  
11 AMENDMENT
 
11.1 This document may be amended by a vote of 2/3 majority of the entire voting membership of the COGS Full Council.
Page 15 of 15
