Spartan Life Student Handbook - Types of Financial Aid

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
        -   Information Sources
        -   Applying For Aid: The FAFSA
        -   Types of Financial Aid
        -   Budgeting
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Financial Aid

> Types of Financial Aid

[Click here to print this page]



TYPES OF FINANCIAL AID


Financial aid programs fall into the following categories: grants and
scholarships, loans, and work. Programs within each category may be
need-based or non-need-based. Need is determined by the Free Application
for Federal Student Aid Application (FAFSA). Students who do not qualify
for need-based aid may still be eligible for some loan programs. Student
employment is available for all students. The Office of Financial Aid
must follow federal, state, and institutional regulations when awarding
aid. Awards will be made on a first-come, first-served basis as long as
funds are available.

SCHOLARSHIP ASSISTANCE: To pursue scholarship possibilities beyond those
offered at MSU, consider a personal scholarship search. Use the library,
or search online using free scholarship search tools on the Office of
Financial Aid website at _www.finaid.msu.edu/searches.asp._

SHORT-TERM LOANS: If you need money temporarily for educational
expenses, short-term (60-day) loans are available in the Office of
Financial Aid. These loans may be available in a relatively short time.
Students who are registered and have no MSU holds may apply for a
short-term loan online at STUINFO (_https://stuinfo.msu.edu_).

ASMSU LOANS: The ASMSU loan program allows undergraduate students to
receive interest-free loans of up to $300 for the first six weeks of
each summer, fall and spring semester. Two forms of photo identification
must be presented in 307 Student Services Building which is open Monday
through Friday 9:00 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Students must be enrolled in the
current semester with no holds. Please contact the ASMSU Engagement
Office at (517) 355-8266 for more information.

COGS LOANS: COGS provides two types of short term loans. The first is a
$300 loan that is interest free for 8 weeks but only available the first
6 weeks of any semester. This loan can be obtained by going to ASMSU in
307 Student Services Building. The second loan is obtainable from the
Office of Financial Aid in 252 Student Services in the amount of $500.
This loan is interest free for 60 days.

FINANCIAL AID ON THE WEB
Financial aid information for MSU students may be found on the web at
two locations:

-   _www.finaid.msu.edu_ is the home page of the Office of Financial
    Aid. Here you will find descriptions and eligibility requirements
    for the types of aid most commonly awarded to MSU students.
-   _www.stuinfo.msu.edu_ is the gateway to student records. In STUINFO
    you will find FINANCIAL AID (CHECK YOUR AID) which lists your aid
    and the steps required before the aid can be paid to you.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
