Spartan Life Student Handbook - Other On-Campus Recreational
Opportunities

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
        -   Recreational Sports and Fitness Services
        -   Other On-Campus Recreational Opportunities
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Recreation

> Other On-Campus Recreational Opportunities

[Click here to print this page]



OTHER ON-CAMPUS RECREATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES


In addition to the sports already mentioned, a number of other
activities are available on the campus and in the Greater Lansing
community. For locations of community facilities, see the Yellow Pages
or the “Community Profile” pages of the Lansing telephone directory.

ADAPTIVE RECREATION. Please go to _recsports.msu.edu_ and chose the
adaptive recreation tab on the main page, lower left. We have all types
of recreation opportunities for different levels of mobility and desired
athletic competitive levels.

AEROBICS. Zumba, yoga and other aerobic programs are available. Check
the website for any Rec Sports schedules at _www.recsports.msu.edu_.

BASKETBALL. There is  drop in recreation at all three IM buildings. Many
outdoor courts are available throughout campus.

FITNESS CENTERS. The Fitness Centers at IM-East and IM-West are
available daily for individual workouts. They provide a variety of
strength training, cardio and selectorized equipment. A daily user fee
is charged or semester memberships are available. For more information,
call (517) 355-5250 (IM-West), (517) 353-3136 (IM-East). Individual
fitness assessments and personal training services are available by
calling IM-West at (517) 355-5250. Individual fitness assessments are
also available at Olin Health Center, (517) 353-4660.

GOLF. Forest Akers Golf Course (West and East) are both 18-hole courses
located on the MSU campus along Harrison Road south of Mt. Hope Road.
The courses are open to students, faculty, staff, and the public.
Students pay the lowest rate. Call (517) 355-1635 for information and
reservations. Recreational Sports also holds both Fall and Spring
Semester tournaments check the website.

GROUP EXERCISE CLASSES. A full complement of group exercise classes are
available at the IM-East, IM-West, and IM-Circle facilities. From
cardio-combo to group cycling to zumba (and many more) these classes are
fun and challenging whatever your fitness level. Class fees may be paid
on a daily or semester basis. For information: IM-East (517) 353- 3136
or IM-West (517) 355-5250.

HANDCYCLING. Handcycling is available through the MSU Bike Share
program, go to _http://asmsu.msu.edu/services/bike-share/_.

JOGGING/RUNNING. A campus jogging map is available at the IM buildings.
It indicates specific routes for given distances. There is a 400-meter
outdoor track west of the Stadium, a 1/8-mile indoor track in Jenison
Field House, and an indoor track at the IM-East. Call the IM office,
(517) 355-5250, for information about their use. Races are common in the
spring and fall. Watch The State News for announcements.

RACQUETBALL/HANDBALL/PADDLEBALL/SQUASH. Courts are located in IM-East
and IM-West. Wallyball is also available in the IM-East. For
reservations call (517) 353-3223 (IM East).

SAILING. The MSU Sailing Center has its home on the southwest shore of
Lake Lansing, approximately 5 miles from the main campus. Contact the
Sailing Center at (517) 339-8269 or _msusailing.com_ for detailed
information. Sailing and paddle sports classes are available for credit
as well as non-credit for the MSU and community as well as the general
public.

SELF DEFENSE FOR WOMEN. IM Sports offers workshops that provide
practical information, physical defense techniques, and strategies
regarding sexual assault prevention. The focus of our program is women’s
empowerment and safety but men are welcome and encouraged to attend as
well. Information is available at the IM-Circle and speaking with Angela
Michael, (517) 372-2661.

SWIMMING. The IM indoor pools provide year-round swimming for both men
and women. Children may also swim at certain times. The outdoor IM pool
is popular from May to October. Learn-to-swim classes are available.

TENNIS. Twenty lighted tennis courts are available south of the indoor
football facility on Wilson Road. Eight more unlighted courts are
available on East campus, just south of Fee Hall. There are two indoor
courts in IM Sports-West.

The MSU Tennis Center on Mt. Hope Road  is a full-service tennis
facility with eight indoor tennis courts, offering a wide variety of
tennis programs for MSU and the greater Lansing community and has a
seating capacity of 1,200. Courts are available to students, faculty,
staff, alumni, and the public when not in use by varsity tennis teams.
Students pay the lowest fee. Courts are accessible for individuals with
disabilities. Call (517) 355-2209 for reservations.

Team, individual, and co-rec tournaments are offered by the Rec Sports
Department.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
