Spartan Life Student Handbook - General Assembly

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
        -   Associated Students of MSU (ASMSU)
            -   General Assembly
        -   Council of Graduate Students (COGS)
        -   Major Governing Groups
        -   Academic Governance
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Governance at MSU

> Associated Students of MSU (ASMSU)

> General Assembly

[Click here to print this page]



GENERAL ASSEMBLY


GENERAL ASSEMBLY The ASMSU General Assembly meets each Thursday night to
discuss issues that are affecting students on- and off-campus dealing
with both academic and non-academic issues. The assembly’s purpose is to
improve life for students at MSU through continued dialogue within the
community. The President acts as the elected leader and spokesperson
of ASMSU to the University administration and other governmental
entities. The President works with the ASMSU Vice Presidents for
Academic Affairs, Finance and Operations, Governmental Affairs, Student
Allocations, and Internal Administration as well as the ASMSU General
Assembly in advancing the cause of all Michigan State University
students. The General Assembly is the main decision making body of ASMSU
and has the power to effect real and lasting change on Michigan State
University’s campus.

FRESHMAN CLASS COUNCIL, a department within ASMSU, serves as the voice
of the freshman class and coordinates activities, programs, and projects
for the freshman class. The council is appointed by ASMSU each fall
semester through an application process. Applications are available in
the ASMSU Engagement Office located at 307 Student Services Building or
by contacting the ASMSU Vice President for Internal Administration at
vpia@asmsu.msu.edu or by calling (517) 355-8286.

SOPHOMORE CLASS COUNCIL, a department within ASMSU, serving as the voice
of the sophomore class. The council will coordinate activities,
programs, and projects for the sophomore class. For more information
please contact the Sophomore Class Council via the ASMSU Vice President
for Internal Administration at vpia@asmsu.msu.edu or by calling (517)
355-8266.

JUNIOR CLASS COUNCIL, a department within ASMSU, serving as the voice of
the junior class. The council will coordinate activities, programs, and
projects for the junior class. For more information please contact the
Junior Class Council via the ASMSU Vice President for Internal
Administration at vpia@asmsu.msu.edu or by calling (517) 355-8266.

SENIOR CLASS COUNCIL, a department within ASMSU, serves as the voice of
the senior class and coordinates activities, programs, and projects for
the senior class. The council provides programs including the career
development workshop series, a reception honoring outstanding seniors,
faculty and staff, providing the senior class gift, coordinating the
undergraduate student commencement speaker selection committee, and
hosting senior day and philanthropy events such as the Charity Bowl.
The next Senior Class Council is elected each spring semester through
a campus-wide election as part of the Spring Referenda and Election
online process. For more information please contact the Senior Class
Council via the ASMSU Vice President for Internal Administration at
vpia@asmsu.msu.edu or by calling (517) 355-8266.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
