Spartan Life Student Handbook - The Neighborhood Student Success
Collaborative

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
        -   Student Academic Affairs
            -   College Offices
            -   The Neighborhood Student Success Collaborative
            -   The Office of Supportive Services
            -   The Writing Center
        -   Libraries
        -   Technology Resources
        -   MSU Testing Office
        -   Special Learning Options
        -   Academic Records
        -   Complaints and Grievances
        -   Textbook and Course Materials Shopping Guide
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Academic Affairs and Services

> Student Academic Affairs

> The Neighborhood Student Success Collaborative

[Click here to print this page]



THE NEIGHBORHOOD STUDENT SUCCESS COLLABORATIVE


The Neighborhood Student Success Collaborative (NSSC) provides services
through its five Engagement Centers.

At the heart of Neighborhoods are Engagement Centers. These
state-of-the-art centers are newly built to include collaborative study
space, advising and tutoring space, health clinics, fitness program
space, access to intercultural activities and services, and more. MSU
students use Engagement Centers to enhance their college experience and
prepare for the future, connect campus resources, achieve academic
success, live healthy lifestyles, explore new cultures and join the MSU
Community! Neighborhood Engagement Centers are staffed and supported by
a Neighborhood Engagement Director and professionals who care deeply
about Spartan students and are able to connect them with the resources
they need. Find more information at: _www.neighborhoods.msu.edu._

NEIGHBORHOOD ENGAGEMENT CENTERS:

• East Neighborhood Engagement Center – C130 Hubbard Hall – (517)
884-3501
(Akers, Hubbard, Holmes)

• Brody Neighborhood Engagement Center – 160 Brody Hall – (517) 353-3863
(Emmons, Bailey, Armstrong, Bryan, Butterfield, Rather, University
Village)

• South Neighborhood Engagement Center – Holden Hall – (517) 884-6680
(Holden, Case, Wilson, Wonders)

• River Trail Neighborhood Engagement Center – C101 McDonel Hall – (517)
884-4080
(McDonel, Shaw, Owen, Van Hoosen)

• North Neighborhood Engagement Center – 200 Union Building – (517)
884-4050
(Williams, Yakeley, Gilchrist, Campbell, Landon, Mayo, Mason-Abbott,
Snyder-Phillips, Off Campus)

NEIGHBORHOOD ACADEMIC ADVISING: NSSC enrolls and is administratively
responsible for all freshmen and sophomores, except those in Lyman
Briggs College, James Madison College, and the Residential College in
the Arts and Humanities. The Neighborhood Advisors in each of the 5
neighborhood communities assist and guide students to the selection of a
major, monitor their academic progress, provide academic advising, guide
students toward activities that are designed to enhance their personal
and professional growth, and make appropriate referrals to enable
students to take advantage of other resources and services at the
university. Neighborhood Student Success Collaborative staff are readily
accessible in the Neighborhood Engagement Centers. For more information
go to: _www.nssc.msu.edu._

No appointment is necessary, but can be arranged. Website:
_http://msu.campus.eab.com_. While students are encouraged to visit the
Neighborhood Engagement Center closest to their residence, students can
visit an Engagement Center in any area for academic advising and
assistance.

DOW STEM SCHOLARS PROGRAM: The DOW STEM SCHOLARS PROGRAM provides
academic and social support services to incoming MSU students (Michigan
Residents-Only), who want to pursue a STEM (Science, Technology,
Engineering, or Mathematics) major and place into INTERMEDIATE COLLEGE
ALGEBRA & TRIGONOMETRY – MATH 1825 on the MSU Math Placement Exam. The
DOW STEM SCHOLARS PROGRAM focuses on assisting students’ transition into
college and develop the skills needed to pursue a STEM degree. The
program gives students with academic potential the opportunity to
surround themselves with a positive group of fellow Spartans who are
motivated to earn a STEM degree. Participation in the DOW STEM SCHOLARS
PROGRAM is FREE.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
