Spartan Life Student Handbook - Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection

[Click here to print this page]



BAD CHECK/RETURNED ACH COLLECTION


(Administrative Ruling)

GENERAL POLICY: Each individual is sent written notification that his or
her check/Automated Clearing House (ACH) has been returned, requesting
redemption, either by cash, money order, or certified check, plus a
service charge within a period of three (3) weeks.

1. CHECK/ACH NEGOTIATED FOR THE PURPOSE OF REGISTERING, INCLUDING
PAYMENT OF HOLDS, TUITION, BOARD AND ROOM:
Immediately upon receipt of the unpaid check/ACH by the University, a
financial hold is placed against the student. Written notification is
sent to each student indicating that a check/ACH was returned and
requesting the student to redeem the check/ACH or contact the Cashier’s
Office within three (3) weeks. The notice also indicates that the
student’s registration may be cancelled if the check/ACH is not redeemed
by the due date on the notice. A student whose registration has been
cancelled may be allowed to reregister during the semester subject to
class availability, department approval, and the payment of all
outstanding obligations with certifiable funds. A service charge of $75
is assessed unless the student presents a letter from his or her bank
stating that the bank made an error. The $75 service charge is comprised
of a $25 returned item service charge and a late registration fee of
$50.

2. CHECK/ACH NEGOTIATED FOR REASONS OTHER THAN REGISTRATION:
Written notification is sent to a person indicating that his or her
check/ACH has been returned. This notice requests redemption of the
check/ACH within a period of three (3) weeks by cash, money order, or
certified check plus a $25 service charge.

a. Non-Student Check/ACH – If there is no response to the notice, a
follow-up letter will be mailed allowing three (3) more weeks in which
to pay. If unpaid by the due date on the notice, the check/ACH is
charged back to the department concerned. If the check/ACH amount and
service charge totals $25 or more may be turned over to Delinquent
Receivables and may be referred to a collection agency.

b. Student Check/ACH – Immediately upon receipt of the unpaid check/ACH
by the University, a financial hold is placed against the student. If
the check and service charge remain unpaid, the account may be turned
over to Delinquent Receivables for collection.

3. CHECK/ACH NEGOTIATED WHEN IT APPEARS THAT THE INDIVIDUAL HAS FULL
KNOWLEDGE THAT FUNDS WERE NOT AVAILABLE OR THE PERSON ADMITS TO SECURING
MONEY UNDER FALSE PRETENSES:

a. If the individual or student fails to make restitution as a result of
normal follow-up procedures, and it appears that the individual has full
knowledge that funds were not available, or the person admits to
securing money under false pretenses, the case will be reviewed for
possible prosecution.

b. Individuals wishing to make restitution on a check/ACH referred to
the MSU Police Department must make restitution at that office.

4. BAD CHECK LIST:

a. A student, who has issued three (3) checks and/or ACH’s to the
University that have been returned within a 12 month period, will be
sent written notification that his or her name is being placed on the
Bad Check List. A student whose registration has been cancelled for
nonpayment of a registration check/ACH will be immediately placed on the
Bad Check List. All future payments to the University must be by cash,
money order, or certified check.

b. Placement on the bad check list may be cause for denying future short
term loans.

c. A student may request that his or her name be removed from the Bad
Check List one year from the date his or her last returned check/ACH was
paid in full by completing a form in the Cashier’s Office.

5. OTHER SANCTIONS:
In addition, the University reserves the right to take one or more of
the following actions:

a. Refer past-due unpaid returned checks/ACH and service charge to an
external collection agency and report the balance to a credit bureau.

b. Refer the student to the Office of Student Affairs and Services for
disciplinary action.

c. Bring action against the individual for the amount of a returned
check/ACH not redeemed within 30 days of the date of the notification
letter and $250 in costs. In addition, the court could rule that you
must also pay the greater of $100 or two times the amount of the
returned check/ACH. If you pay the total amount due within 30 days, no
civil action will be taken against you.

-   -   Vice President for Finance and Treasurer
        -   January 1, 1975

(Amended 1981, 1982, 1985, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1993, 1994, 1998, 1999,
2000, 2003, 2011)

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
