Spartan Life Student Handbook - Bicycles

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Bicycles

[Click here to print this page]



BICYCLES


(Abridges text from ordinances 10.00 and 33.00)

If a bicycle is operated, parked or possessed on MSU property, the MSU
Police remind you that a bicycle must bear a current, valid and properly
affixed permit issued by the Michigan State University Department of
Police and Public Safety, the City of Lansing, the City of East Lansing,
Lansing Township or Meridian Township.

1. REGISTERING. Any bicycle operated or possessed on campus must bear a
current, valid and properly affixed permit issued by the Michigan State
University Department of Police and Public Safety, the City of Lansing,
the City of East Lansing, Lansing Township or Meridian Township. Permits
issued by the University are available online at _www.police.msu.edu_.
The bicycle’s serial number or a self-selected number that has been
engraved into the frame of the bicycle (engravers are available at the
Police Desk) must be provided to register the bicycle. Permits must be
attached according to the instructions on the back of the permit (to the
frame post located below the bicycle seat).

2. PARKING. Unattended bicycles must be placed in bicycle racks and
locked. Under no circumstances shall bicycles be parked in shrubbery,
near building exits or entrances, in vehicle parking areas, or next to
poles, posts, trees, handrails, etc.

3. IMPOUNDING. Bicycles not properly parked, not registered, parked
unlocked or in disrepair may be impounded. It may be reclaimed
Monday-Friday, 8:00 a.m.-4:30 p.m., at the MSU Parking Office upon proof
of ownership and payment of the established impound fee. Impounded
bicycles will be held at least 30 days, after which, unclaimed bicycles
will be transferred to MSU Surplus to be sold.

4. ANNUAL CLEANUP. Starting the week after spring semester and during
the summer, MSU Parking performs an annual bike cleanup. Bikes that are
not registered with a valid permit will be impounded whether they are
attached to a bicycle rack or not. Impoundment includes bikes that are
in disrepair, or attached to meters, signs, railings, etc. A bicycle in
proper repair that is locked to a bicycle rack and bears a current,
valid and properly affixed permit issued by the Michigan State
University Department of Police and Public Safety, the City of Lansing,
the City of East Lansing, Lansing Township or Meridian Township should
not be impounded.

5. OPERATION. State law and local ordinances require that bicycles be
operated as if they were motor vehicles. You are required to yield the
right of way to pedestrians in marked crosswalks, obey all traffic
control signs and devices and keep as far to the right on the roadway as
is possible, using bicycle lanes when available. Riding on sidewalks or
footpaths, riding more than two abreast or riding against traffic is
prohibited.

6. EQUIPMENT. Bicycles operated during dusk, darkness or dawn hours
shall show a white light to the front and a red light or reflector to
the rear.

7. ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION. MSU Police is responsible for the
enforcement and administration of the University Traffic Ordinance, the
Michigan Motor Vehicle Code and the bicycle licensing (registering) and
control provisions thereof.

General bicycle information may be found at the MSU Police website or in
the Student Parking and Driving Regulations at
_www.police.msu.edu. _Ordinance information may be found at
_https://trustees.msu.edu/ordinances/index.html_.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
