Spartan Life Student Handbook - Code of Teaching Responsibility

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
            -   Hearing Procedures
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Code of Teaching Responsibility

[Click here to print this page]



CODE OF TEACHING RESPONSIBILITY


(All-University Policy)

Satisfaction of teaching responsibilities by instructional staff members
(herein referred to as instructors) is essential to the successful
functioning of a university. This University conceives these
responsibilities to be so important that performance by instructors in
meeting the provisions of this Code shall be taken into consideration in
determining salary increases, tenure, and promotion.

1. COURSE CONTENT: Instructors shall be responsible for ensuring that
the content of the courses they teach is consistent with the course
descriptions approved by the University Committee on Curriculum and
the University Council. Instructors shall direct class activities toward
the fulfillment of course objectives and shall evaluate student
performance in a manner consistent with these objectives.

2. COURSE SYLLABI: Instructors shall be responsible for distributing a
course syllabus (either in print or electronic form) at the beginning of
the semester. The syllabus shall minimally include:

(a) instructional objectives;

(b) instructor contact information and office hours;

(c) grading criteria and methods used to determine final course grades;

(d) date of the final examination and tentative dates of required
assignments, quizzes, and tests, if applicable;

(e) attendance policy, if different from the University attendance
policy and especially when that attendance policy affects student
grades; and

(f) required and recommended course materials to be purchased, including
textbooks and supplies; and

(g) any required proctoring arrangements to which students must adhere.

3. STUDENT ASSESSMENT AND FINAL GRADES: Instructors shall be responsible
for informing students, in a timely manner so as to enhance learning, of
the grading criteria and methods used to determine grades on individual
assignments. Instructors shall be responsible for assessing a student’s
performance based on announced criteria and on standards of academic
achievement. Instructors shall submit final course grades in accordance
with University deadlines. Assessment methods should be appropriate to
the learning objectives of the course. In that context, instructors are
expected to take reasonable steps to create an assessment environment
that promotes academic integrity. When proctoring or other security
measures are necessary to ensure integrity of assessments, then such
measures should be administered in a manner consistent with the design
and delivery of the course.

4. TESTING DOCUMENTS: Instructors shall be responsible for returning a
student’s answers to quizzes, tests, and examinations with such
promptness to enhance the learning experience. Instructors shall retain
final examination answers for at least one semester to allow students to
review or to retrieve them. All testing questions (whether on quizzes,
tests, or mid-semester or final examinations) are an integral part of
course materials and the decision whether to allow students to retain
them is left to the discretion of the instructor.

5. TERM PAPERS AND COMPARABLE PROJECTS: Instructors shall be responsible
for returning a student’s term papers and other comparable projects with
sufficient promptness to enhance the learning experience. Term papers
and other comparable projects are the property of students who prepare
them. Instructors shall retain such unclaimed course work for at least
one semester to allow students to retrieve such work. Instructors have a
right to retain a copy of student course work for their own files.

6. CLASS MEETINGS: Instructors shall be responsible for meeting their
classes regularly and at scheduled times. To allow units to take
appropriate action, instructors shall notify their units if they are to
be absent and have not made suitable arrangements regarding their
classes.

7. APPLICABILITY OF THE CODE OF TEACHING RESPONSIBILITY TO STUDENT
ASSISTANTS: Instructors of courses in which assistants are authorized to
perform teaching, grading, or other instructional functions shall be
responsible for acquainting such individuals with the provisions of this
Code and for monitoring their compliance.

8. INSTRUCTOR ACCESSIBILITY TO STUDENTS: Instructors shall be
responsible for being accessible to students outside of class time and
therefore shall schedule and keep office hours for student conferences.
Office hours should be scheduled at times convenient to both students
and instructors with the additional option of mutually convenient
prearranged appointments for students whose schedules conflict with
announced office hours. Each teaching unit shall determine the minimum
number of office hours for instructors in that unit. Instructors who
serve as academic advisors also shall be responsible for maintaining
appropriate office hours before and during enrollment periods. In
addition to office hours, instructor accessibility through email and
other means is encouraged.

9. COMMERCIALIZATION OF COURSE NOTES AND MATERIALS: The University
prohibits students from commercializing their notes of lectures and
University-provided class materials _without the written consent of the
instructor_. Instructors may allow commercialization by including
permission in the course syllabus or other written statement distributed
to all students in the class.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
