Spartan Life Student Handbook - Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and
Activities by University Administrative Units, Criteria for

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by University
Administrative Units, Criteria for

[Click here to print this page]



FUNDING STUDENT-SPONSORED PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES BY UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATIVE UNITS, CRITERIA FOR


Freedom of expression and communication is recognized as essential to
the basic purposes of the University. “The freedom and effectiveness of
the educational process depends upon the provision of appropriate
conditions and opportunities for learning in an environment that is
supportive of diversity among ideas, cultures, and student
characteristics.” (Student Rights and Responsibilities, Article 2.I.)

Within this context, student organizations can further opportunities for
learning through co-curricular programs which they sponsor. The Outside
Speakers Policy specifically encourages student groups to invite
speakers to the campus in order to foster free inquiry and “to encourage
the timely discussion of a wide variety of issues, provided that the
views expressed are stated openly and, therefore, are subject to
critical evaluation”.

Student groups may seek funding for the programs they choose to sponsor
from a variety of sources.

The _All-University Policy on Student Fee Collection_, provides for
students to tax themselves in order to provide programs and services of
particular interest to members of the student body. Further, the
University has specific provisions, under the _All-University Policy for
the Use of Michigan State University Facilities and Services_, whereby
student groups can utilize University facilities and services for
revenue-producing projects. Under this policy student groups may sell
tickets or charge admission to public activities or events, as well as
solicit voluntary contributions or sell student-produced goods and
student-provided services. In order to support their programs and
activities, student groups are encouraged to look to revenue-producing
projects and funding from those student organizations that distribute
student tax revenues.

Beyond utilization of student tax dollars and revenue-producing
projects, student groups may solicit the support of other student groups
on campus to co-sponsor programs of mutual interest.

University funds may be provided directly to student groups by
administrative units for student-sponsored programs and activities if
the following criteria are met:

1. The group must be either a registered student organization or student
governing body recognized by the University.

2. The funds allocated must be designated for defined programmatic
purposes, e.g., conferences, speakers, exhibits.

3. Allocations of funds should, in the judgment of the unit(s), promote
the educational, programmatic objectives of the unit(s).

4. In the absence of actual unit sponsorship, allocations by an
administrative unit must serve to supplement funding, not provide sole
support for programs and activities under the auspices of a student
organization.

5. The amount of any allocations typically reflects factors such as the
overall budget a student group believes is needed to meet its program
objectives, the available sources of funding for student-sponsored
programs and activities, the availability of funds within the unit for
such purposes, and the unit’s practice of funding similar programs and
activities.

6. Administrators shall advise student groups that any programs and
activities funded by an administrative unit must meet the requirements
set forth in University policies and Student Group Regulations, e.g.,
the _Outside Speakers Policy_, the _All-University Policy for Use of
Michigan State University Facilities and Services_, and the
_Anti-Discrimination Policy_.

7. Administrators who allocate funds to student organizations are held
accountable for these allocations and their programmatic implications
within the context of the University’s usual procedures. The unit must
maintain a record of funds directly allocated to student organizations.
Further, for public events (e.g., outside speakers), the unit’s
contribution to the event should be visible on materials related to the
program.

These criteria do not apply to activities for students sponsored by
administrative units.

-   Office of the Provost

-   Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs and Services

-   June 7, 1990

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
