Spartan Life Student Handbook - Identification Cards

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Identification Cards

[Click here to print this page]



IDENTIFICATION CARDS


(Administrative Ruling)

1. Each student of Michigan State University is issued an ID card
following initial enrollment.

2. The ID card is the property of Michigan State University.

3. The falsification, alteration, or unauthorized transference (loaning)
of said ID cards or any other University records or documents may be a
violation of _General Student Regulation 5.00_.

4. In case of violation of any rule or regulation of the University or
of any local, state, or federal ordinances or laws, students shall, upon
demand, surrender said ID cards to the appropriate University
authorities charged with the conduct of student affairs or to a member
of the Department of Police and Public Safety.

-   Vice President for Student Affairs and Services

(See also: _General Student Regulation 5.07_.)

MORE ABOUT ID CARDS

Library privileges, access to university buildings, access to residence
halls including living wings, facilities and classrooms, and purchase of
tickets and entry into athletic and entertainment events may require the
possession and presentation of the ID card upon request. The card is
also used for meal plans and Spartan Cash. The ID card is not
transferable for use by another person. You are responsible for all use
of your ID card whether authorized or unauthorized. Do not loan your ID
card or leave it where it might be used by an unauthorized person. If
you lose your ID card, report it lost immediately 24/7 at
_spartancash.com_

Your first ID card is issued to you at no cost. Replacement cards are
$20.

The ID Office is located in 170 International Center. A government
issued photo ID such as a driver’s license, state ID or passport is
needed to obtain your ID including replacement IDs.

Hours of operation: Monday-Friday, 8:00 a.m.-4:45 p.m. For more
information, you can call (517) 355-4500 or send an email to
idoffice@msu.edu.

Spouses of registered students may obtain IDs entitling them to certain
privileges. The student and spouse must appear together in person in 170
International Center and present the student’s MSU ID card and proof of
marriage. There is no charge for the initial ID. A replacement card for
a spouse costs $5.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
