Spartan Life Student Handbook - Integrity of Scholarship and Grades

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Integrity of Scholarship and Grades

[Click here to print this page]



INTEGRITY OF SCHOLARSHIP AND GRADES


(All-University Policy)

(Note: This policy is not applicable to students in the MSU College of
Law degree programs. The Law College follows American Bar Association
requirements and the Law Student Rights  and Responsibilities document,
_http://splife.studentlife.msu.edu/law-students-rights-and-responsibilities._)

The following statement of university policy addresses principles and
procedures to be used in instances of academic dishonesty, violations of
professional standards, and falsification of academic or admission
records, herein after referred to as academic misconduct.

1. The principles of truth and honesty are recognized as fundamental to
a community of scholars. The university expects both instructors and
students to honor these principles and, in so doing, to protect the
validity of university education and grades. Practices that maintain the
integrity of scholarship and grades include providing accurate
information for academic and admission records, adherence to
unit-approved professional standards and honor codes, and completion of
original academic work by the student to whom it is assigned, without
unauthorized aid of any kind. To encourage adherence to the principles
of truth and honesty, instructors should exercise care in planning and
supervising academic work, and implement proctoring standards
appropriate to the design of the course.

2. If an instructor alleges a student has committed an act of academic
misconduct, the instructor is responsible for taking appropriate action.
Depending on the instructor’s judgment of a specific instance, the
instructor may give the student a penalty grade. A penalty grade may be
a reduced score or grade for the assignment or a reduced grade for the
course. [For a definition of “penalty grade”, see _Student Rights and
Responsibilities (SRR) 11._ and _Graduate Students Rights and
Responsibilities_ _(GSRR) 8.1.18_.]

3. When an instructor gives an undergraduate or graduate student a
penalty grade for academic misconduct, the instructor must complete and
submit an Academic Dishonesty Report (available on the Registrar’s Form
Menu under Instructor Systems). The report will be sent to the student,
the student’s dean, the Dean of the Graduate School (for graduate
students) or Dean of Undergraduate Studies (for undergraduate students)
and be added to the student’s academic record provisionally. It will
remain in the student’s record unless: a) the student successfully
grieves the allegation; b) the instructor filing the report requests it
be removed; or, for undergraduates only, c) upon conferral of their
degree if only one report has been filed, the student has successfully
completed the required course on academic integrity, and no additional
sanctions were requested.

4. When completing the Academic Dishonesty Report, if the instructor
gives a failing grade in the course, the instructor may request the
student’s academic dean to impose sanctions in addition to the failing
grade.

5. When in the judgment of the student’s academic dean, a sanction in
addition to a penalty grade is warranted (e.g., dismissal from a unit or
program), the dean may call for an academic disciplinary hearing. In
calling for an academic disciplinary hearing, the student’s academic
dean may act independently or in response to a request by the
instructor. [See _SRR 7.V, GSRR 5.5_, and _Medical Student Rights and
Responsibilities (MSRR) 5.3_.]

6. A student accused of academic misconduct may request an academic
grievance hearing to contest the allegation before the appropriate
hearing board. In cases involving academic misconduct, no student may be
dismissed from a course or program of study without an academic
disciplinary hearing.

7. On the first offense of academic misconduct, the student must
complete an educational program on academic integrity and academic
misconduct provided by the Dean of Undergraduate Studies for
undergraduate students or the Dean of the Graduate School for graduate
students.

8. In cases involving undergraduate students in which the student’s
academic dean, or designee, calls for an academic disciplinary hearing,
the student’s academic dean will refer the case to the Dean of
Undergraduate Studies. The Dean of Undergraduate Studies will notify the
student in writing of the call for a disciplinary hearing and will
invite the student to a meeting to determine the appropriate judiciary
for the hearing. (See _SRR 7.V._)

9. In cases involving graduate students in which the student’s academic
dean, or designee, calls for an academic disciplinary hearing, the
student’s academic dean will inform the student and then refer the case
to the Dean of the Graduate School. The Dean of the Graduate School will
notify the student in writing of the call for a disciplinary hearing and
will invite the student to a meeting to discuss the hearing process.
(See _GSRR 5.5._)

10. Either party may appeal a decision of an administrative disciplinary
hearing or a disciplinary hearing board to the appropriate appellate
board. (See _SRR 7.VII., GSRR 5.4.12._, and _MSRR 5.8._)

(See _General Student Regulation 1.00, Protection of Scholarship and
Grades;_ _Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge;_ _Graduate Student
Rights and Responsibilities, Article 5_; or _Medical Student Rights and
Responsibilities_,_Article 5.)_

-   Academic Council
-   Academic Senate
-   November 18, 1969, Revised July, 1990
-   Editorial revisions as printed in Academic Programs 2000
-   Revised February 24, 2009
-   Board of Trustees, February 12, 2010, Effective August 16, 2011
-   Revised by University Committee on Graduate Studies, November 10,
    2014
-   Revised by University Committee on Graduate Studies and approved by
    University Committee on Undergraduate Education, January 15, 2015
-   Academic Governance, Revised March 17, 2015

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
