Spartan Life Student Handbook - Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary
Withdrawal Policy

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy

[Click here to print this page]



MANDATORY ASSESSMENT AND INVOLUNTARY WITHDRAWAL POLICY


(Administrative Ruling)

I. PURPOSE

Michigan State University has established a Mandatory Assessment and
Involuntary Withdrawal Policy for the purpose of maintaining a campus
environment conducive to student learning, academic achievement,
individual responsibility, and respect for the rights and privileges of
all members of the University community.

This Policy codifies the University’s long-standing practice of
utilizing a non-disciplinary process to address the rare and unusual
situation when a student’s mental or physical health poses a direct
threat to his/her health and safety or that of others.

II. COVERED BEHAVIOR

The University, through its Vice President for Student Affairs and
Services or designee (hereinafter, the “Vice President”), may require a
student to complete a mandatory assessment pursuant to the process
outlined in this Policy if the Vice President has been presented with a
credible report that the student, for reasons pertaining to mental or
physical health, poses a direct threat to his/her health and safety or
that of others.¹

This Policy is not intended to address public health emergencies.
Students are subject to the Public Health Code, as well as other State
laws and University policies, in a public health emergency.

III. PROCEDURES

In the event that the conditions set forth in Section II of this Policy
are met, the Vice President may initiate the following procedures:²

A. MANDATORY ASSESSMENT

The Vice President will require the student to undergo an assessment
with a health professional designated by the University within a
specified period of time. The purpose of the assessment is to ascertain
whether the student poses an immediate and direct threat to his/her
health and safety or that of others. At this assessment, the student may
be asked to sign a release of information³ to allow the health
professional conducting the assessment to communicate with the student’s
treating physician or mental health professional (if applicable) to
allow for a comprehensive evaluation of whether the student poses such a
direct threat. The student’s parents/guardians may also be notified of
the decision to require a mandatory assessment.

B. EMERGENCY INTERIM SUSPENSION

The Vice President may temporarily suspend a student from the University
and/or restrict the student’s access to the University’s campus,
housing, services, or activities when the conditions set forth in
Section II have been met and (1) a mandatory assessment is pending or
(2) the student has failed to complete the mandatory assessment within
the allotted time. This emergency interim suspension will remain in
effect until there is a final determination of the matter by the
Involuntary Medical Withdrawal Hearing Board under Section III.C.3
below.

Prior to imposing an emergency interim suspension, the Vice President
shall make reasonable efforts to provide the student with written notice
of the proposed action and an opportunity to meet with the Vice
President. The Vice President’s decision to implement an emergency
interim suspension will be communicated in writing to the student, the
dean of the student’s primary academic unit (if applicable), and
administrators of other University units (e.g., Residence Education and
Housing Services, Campus Living Services) as appropriate. The student’s
parents/guardians may also be notified of the decision to implement an
emergency interim suspension.

If an emergency interim suspension is imposed, the Vice President shall
promptly refer the case to the Involuntary Medical Withdrawal Hearing
Board (“Hearing Board”) to decide whether to withdraw the student from
the University or grant reinstatement.

C. INVOLUNTARY MEDICAL WITHDRAWAL HEARING

The Vice President may refer a student for a hearing before the
Involuntary Medical Withdrawal Hearing Board pursuant to Section III.B.
of this Policy or if the health professional who conducts the mandatory
assessment concludes that a significant risk exists that the student
will cause harm to himself/herself or to others.

1. HEARING BOARD COMPOSITION

The Members of the Hearing Board will be the Dean of the Graduate School
or the Dean of Undergraduate Studies (depending on the graduate or
undergraduate status of the student), the Director of the Counseling
Center, a University psychiatrist, and the Associate Vice President for
Student Affairs and Director of Student Life (“Associate Vice
President”) (or their designees).  The Associate Vice President will
serve as the Chair of the Hearing Board.^(4,\ 5)

2. HEARING PROCESS

The Chair of the Hearing Board shall convene the Hearing Board to
determine whether the student should be required to withdraw from the
University. The role of the Hearing Board is to provide an
individualized and objective evaluation of the student’s ability to
safely participate in the University’s programs or activities based on
the most relevant current medical knowledge and best available objective
evidence. The Hearing Board will assess the nature, duration, and
severity of the risk posed by the student; the probability that the
potentially dangerous behavior will actually occur; and whether any
reasonable exception to applicable policies, practices, or procedures
would sufficiently mitigate the risk.⁶ In conducting its assessment, the
Hearing Board will review the student’s medical and behavioral history
and determine whether the behavior is persistent and/or high acuity.

Upon receiving a referral from the Vice President, the Chair of the
Hearing Board shall provide the student with written notice of the date
of the scheduled hearing and a copy of the Hearing Board procedures. At
the hearing, the student will be permitted to present the results of any
medical evaluations (including from a health professional of the
student’s choice) and any other information or witnesses relevant to the
direct threat finding.

3. FINDINGS

Following the hearing, the Hearing Board will issue a written decision
stating whether the student should be withdrawn from the University, the
reasons for its decision, and any requirements the student must meet
prior to applying for readmission if the student is withdrawn. A copy of
this decision will be provided to the student and the Vice President.

If the Hearing Board finds that the conditions set forth in Section II
of this Policy have been met, the student will be involuntarily
withdrawn from the University. The Vice President will notify the
student in writing of the effective date of the withdrawal,⁷ the
specific requirements the student must meet to apply for readmission to
the University, and the student’s right to appeal the decision to the
Provost. A copy of this notice will be sent to the dean of the student’s
primary academic unit (if applicable) and the University Registrar. The
Vice President may also give written notice of the withdrawal to the
student’s parent(s) or guardian(s).

If the Hearing Board finds that the conditions set forth in Section II
of this Policy have not been met because it has identified reasonable
accommodations or mitigating measures which will allow the student to
safely remain in some or all activities or programs of the University,
the Hearing Board will identify such accommodations, mitigating
measures, activities, and programs in its decision. The Vice President
may mandate that the student comply with requirements or measures
identified by the Hearing Board. If the student fails to comply with any
such requirements or measures, the student may be placed on an emergency
interim suspension, and the Hearing Board will be reconvened to
reconsider its decision.

If the Hearing Board determines that the standards for withdrawal have
not been met, the Office of Student Affairs and Services shall assist a
student who has been placed on an interim suspension to resume his/her
studies immediately and provide assistance regarding any coursework the
student missed while on suspension.

4. APPEAL

Within seven calendar days from the date of the Hearing Board’s
decision, a student may file a written appeal with the Provost. The
Provost will review the student’s written appeal and notify the student
of his/her decision in a timely manner.  The Provost’s decision is
final.

5. READMISSION

A student seeking readmission to the University after an involuntary
withdrawal must be able to demonstrate that (1) he/she can participate
in the University’s programs without posing a danger to himself/herself
or others, (2) he/she meets all relevant academic requirements for
his/her readmission, and (3) he/she has met any requirements for
readmission imposed by the Hearing Board.

A student seeking readmission must submit the following documents to the
Vice President:

•A written request⁸ for readmission, consistent with requirements
established by the Hearing Board;

•A completed Readmission Questionnaire⁹ for the Hearing Board from
his/her attending physician or licensed mental health professional. The
Hearing Board may also require the student to undergo an evaluation by a
medical professional designated by the Hearing Board prior to
readmission. The student will be responsible for the cost of this
evaluation.

•A signed release authorizing review of his/her medical records,
including the Readmission Questionnaire, by the medical professionals
designated by the University.

Once the Hearing Board has received the student’s signed release,
medical records, and any other materials the student was required to
supply as a condition of readmission, the Hearing Board will convene to
review the student’s request for readmission. The Hearing Board will
determine whether it will request that the student meet with it. The
Chair of the Hearing Board will notify the student in writing of the
Hearing Board’s decision in a timely manner. The student may appeal this
decision to the Provost by submitting a written appeal to the Provost
within seven (7) calendar days of the Hearing Board’s decision. In the
event of such an appeal, the Provost’s decision is final.

If the student refuses to undergo a medical evaluation, provide
authorization to review his/her medical records, or submit any other
required information, the Hearing Board may deny the student’s request
for readmission.

6. OTHER ACTION

Actions taken under this Policy do not affect the student’s obligation
to comply with other University policies or the sanctions to which the
student may be subject for violation of any such policies.

 7. ADVICE

At any time during the process described in this Section III, the
student may contact the Office of the Ombudsperson for advice.

-   Vice President for Student Affairs and Services

Effective January 28, 2010

‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾
¹ A “direct threat” exists when a student engages, or threatens to
engage, in behavior that poses a significant risk to the health or
safety of the student or others. A “significant risk” exists when there
is a high probability of substantial harm and not just a slightly
increased, speculative, or remote risk.

² Nothing in this Policy precludes the Vice President from temporarily
suspending a student pursuant to the _Student Rights and
Responsibilities_ if the circumstances warrant such a suspension.

³ If the student chooses not to sign the release, the health
professional will proceed with the assessment based on the information
available to him/her.

⁴ The Hearing Board may seek advice from other University offices where
appropriate (e.g., MSU Police Department,  Office of the General
Counsel, Residence Education and Housing Services, or the Resource
Center for Persons with Disabilities).

⁵ The Vice President may appoint a substitute for any of the hearing
panel members if, in the Vice President’s judgment, the hearing panel
member has a conflict of interest that would adversely affect that
member’s ability to render a fair and impartial decision.

⁶ If the student cannot be present at the hearing due to circumstances
beyond the student’s control, the Chair of the Hearing Board may either
reschedule the hearing or conduct the hearing in the student’s absence.
If the student chooses not to be present, the Chair of the Hearing Board
shall conduct the hearing in the absence of the student.

⁷ The Hearing Board may designate an effective date of the withdrawal
that reflects the point in the semester when the conditions set forth in
Article II of this Policy were met, or the Hearing Board may use the
hearing date as the effective date of withdrawal.

⁸ Written requests must be received by the Hearing Board at least 30
days prior to the semester in which the student wishes to return.

⁹ The student may obtain a Readmission Questionnaire from the Office of
the Vice President.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
