Spartan Life Student Handbook - Vehicles

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
            -   A Fine May Be Paid:
            -   Appeals May Be Initiated:
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Vehicles

[Click here to print this page]



VEHICLES


ALL VEHICLES, INCLUDING MOPEDS, MOTORCYCLES AND BICYCLES, OPERATED OR
PARKED ON MSU PROPERTY BY A MSU STUDENT, MUST BE REGISTERED WITH THE
MSU PARKING OFFICE AND BEAR A CURRENT AND VALID PERMIT IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE STUDENT PARKING AND DRIVING REGULATIONS.

All students, except those with fewer than 20 MSU accepted credits and
first-year agriculture technology students residing in residence halls
are eligible to register a vehicle on campus. An exception may be made
after a special parking application and requested information has been
submitted, reviewed by the Parking Office, and approval granted.

Undergraduate and graduate students (including graduate assistants)
commuting from off-campus (commuters) or residing in residence halls or
University Apartments, need to register online via the website:
_www.police.msu.edu_. Parking information may be found under “Management
Services” and then “Parking Office”. Those not mentioned above or who
have questions regarding online registration may contact the Parking
Office at (517) 355-8440 to inquire about obtaining a parking permit.
Permits are sold online at _https://permits.police.msu.edu._

_If_ eligible to register at the Parking Office, the following must be
presented:

1. Current state-issued vehicle registration

2. MSU Student ID (Spartan Card)

3. Proof of credits MSU has finalized

4. Lease agreement (only for Spartan Village, 1855 Place, or University
Village residents)

5. For those who are graduate assistants, proof of a graduate assistant
appointment

6. Payment for the permit (cash, check or money order made out to
Michigan State University, or VISA, MC, DISC and AMEX)

Illegally parked vehicles are subject to violations and may be towed. In
accordance with state law, the registered owner will be held responsible
for the fines incurred. The student registering a vehicle shall be
responsible for its operation. All parking violations must be paid or
appealed within seven (7) days from the date of issuance.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
