Spartan Life Student Handbook - Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered
Student Organizations

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student Organizations

[Click here to print this page]



OUTSIDE SPEAKERS SPONSORED BY REGISTERED STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS


(All-University Policy)

I. PREAMBLE

Michigan State University is committed to the principles of free speech
and free expression embodied in the 1st Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States. Freedom of speech is central to academic freedom and
the related notion that a university should be an open marketplace for
the exchange of ideas.

The University also has a longstanding commitment to the principles of
freedom of inquiry and freedom of dissent. These freedoms are vital to a
robust intellectual exchange and the pursuit of knowledge. Different and
competing views expressed as part of this exchange may cause discomfort
or even offend members of the campus community. The University does not
impose restraints on speech for these reasons, including the speech of
outside speakers. The University will respond to situations involving
disruption of University activities, violence, or other illegal
activity, which results from the remarks of outside speakers and to
comments or actions by outside speakers which are themselves illegal.

II. POLICY

Registered student organizations may sponsor a group or individual to
speak on campus, subject to the following provisions:

A. A student organization which has been properly registered under
University policies must sponsor the speaker.

B. Public announcements concerning the speaker must contain statements
that clearly and accurately identify the speaker, the sponsoring
organization, the subject of the speech, and whether admission to the
event at which the speech will occur is restricted to members of the
organization or open to the University community or the general public.

C. During the speech, the speaker must not violate any law (including
any University ordinance) or incite the audience to take action which is
illegal.

D. Adequate time must be provided for questions and answers at the
conclusion of the speaker’s remarks for all events open to the
University community or the general public.

E. The University reserves the right to regulate the time, place, and
manner of any speech sponsored by a registered student organization
under this Policy to prevent interference with other University
activities and to ensure that the event complies with applicable safety
and security requirements, such as occupancy limitations and maintaining
access to or egress from buildings in the event of fire or another
emergency.

It is the responsibility of the sponsoring organization to inform its
speaker of these provisions.

III. PROCEDURES

The Vice President for Student Affairs and Services shall develop
procedures consistent with this Policy for registered student
organizations to sponsor outside speakers.

IV. OTHER POLICIES

Events under this Policy are subject to other University policies,
including, without being limited to, _Ordinance 15.00 Disorderly
Assemblages or Conduct¹_ and the _All-University Policy for Use of
Michigan State University Facilities and Services_.

V. QUESTIONS/COMPLAINTS

Questions regarding this Policy should be directed to the Vice President
for Student Affairs and Services.

Complaints alleging that a registered student organization has violated
this Policy should be filed pursuant to the _Registered Student
Organizations_ student group regulation or the _Michigan State
University_ _Student Rights and Responsibilities.²_ A registered student
organization found to be in violation of this Policy is subject to the
possible sanctions outlined in those documents.

Complaints alleging that a speaker has violated this Policy should be
filed with the Vice President for Student Affairs and Services. An
outside speaker who violates this Policy may be restricted from speaking
at future events on campus.

Complaints of unlawful activity should be filed with the MSU Police
Department.

VI. HISTORY

This policy was approved by the Board of Trustees on December 14, 1962
and revised on June 19, 2009.

‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾
¹ The MSU Police Department follows its Dissent and Disruption protocol
when responding to disruptions at campus events involving outside
speakers.

² Complaints involving outside speakers sponsored by individuals or
groups other than registered student organizations are processed by the
unit administrator that has oversight for the sponsoring
individual/organization.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
