Spartan Life Student Handbook - Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks

[Click here to print this page]



PARADES, PROCESSIONS, AND SOUND TRUCKS


(Ordinance 39.00)

.01 No funeral, procession, parade, excepting the forces of the United
States Armed Services, the military forces of this State and the forces
of the police and fire department shall occupy, march or proceed along
any street or roadway except in accordance with a permit and such other
regulations as are set forth herein which may apply. No sound truck or
other vehicle equipped with amplifier or loudspeaker may be used unless
written authorization is obtained as indicated in (Ordinance) Section
2.03 (from the Secretary of the Board of Trustees). (NOTE: See _Public
Address Equipment_ for information regarding this authorization.)

-   Board of Trustees
-   April 14, 1995
-   _http://trustees.msu.edu/ordinances/ordinances_sec39.html_

Permits to conduct parades or processions are obtained by individual
registered students and registered student organizations according to
the following all-University policy:

a. Permission to conduct parades and processions must be secured in the
following order: 1) president of ASMSU; 2) Department of Student Life;
3) MSU Police. (Forms for this permission can be obtained in the Student
Life Office, 101 Student Services Building.)

b. If any portion of the route involves travel on an East Lansing
street, permission must also be secured from the East Lansing Police
Department.

c. The person applying for the permission to conduct a parade or
procession will be held responsible for proper conduct of those persons
participating in the event.

d. There shall be no more than 12 vehicles in the procession and they
shall not stop along the route except as necessary to comply with
traffic laws. Drivers of the vehicles will be held responsible for
compliance with the current motor vehicle regulations and traffic
ordinances.

e. Noise-making equipment shall be operated only when the parade or
procession is moving.

f. Parades and processions may be held on weekdays only between 5:30
p.m. and 6:30 p.m.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
