Spartan Life Student Handbook - Public Address Equipment

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Public Address Equipment

[Click here to print this page]



PUBLIC ADDRESS EQUIPMENT


1. MOBILE SOUND UNITS – SOUND TRUCKS
As stated in Ordinance 39.00, written authorization from the Office of
the Secretary of the Board of Trustees, 450 Administration Building,
must be obtained before a sound truck or other vehicle equipped with
amplifier or loudspeaker may be used on the Michigan State University
campus. An Activity Planning Form should be obtained from the Student
Life Office, 101 Student Services, before contacting the Office of the
Secretary of the Board of Trustees for written authorization. The
following rules govern the use of sound trucks and/or mobile sound
units.

a. The sound equipment may be used on campus only between 5:30 p.m. and
6:30 p.m. (Depending on the location of the equipment and the event,
exceptions to this time limit may be recommended by the Department of
Student Life.)

b. Permission must be obtained from the East Lansing authorities if the
equipment is used in East Lansing proper.

2. PUBLIC ADDRESS EQUIPMENT
University ordinance 15.04 states the following:

… No person shall use public address equipment, bullhorns, or other
methods of sound amplification anywhere upon the campus except through
written permit by the Secretary of the Board of Trustees.

The following guidelines govern the implementation of this ordinance.

GUIDELINES FOR USE OF PUBLIC ADDRESS EQUIPMENT
(Administrative Ruling – Applicable to University employees as well as
students)

A. STUDENTS

1) Under Ordinance 15, the use and location of public address equipment,
including bullhorns or other methods of sound amplification, at outdoor
events must be approved by the Office of the Secretary of the Board of
Trustees. An Activity Planning Form, available in the Student Life
Office, 101 Student Services Building, must be completed and signed by
the Department of Student Life prior to seeking approval.

2) In general, approval for the use of public address equipment will be
granted if it would not be disruptive to on-going functions of the
University, such as faculty and administrative offices, libraries,
classroom teaching, and other scheduled University events. Guidelines
for approving requests are as follows:

a) The use of public address equipment for rallies and outdoor speakers
is limited to the vicinity of The Rock. Any one event is limited to 4
hours within the following hours:

Monday-Thursday — 8:00 a.m.-10:00 p.m.
Friday-Saturday — 8:00 a.m.-midnight
Sunday — 1:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m.

The use of public address equipment for concerts in the vicinity of
Beaumont Tower is not permitted.

b) The use of public address equipment for rallies, speakers, and
concerts in residential areas of the campus must have the approval of
the students, advisory staff, and area director within the residential
location requested. Any one event is limited to 4 hours within the
following hours:

Friday — 6:00 p.m.-midnight
Saturday – noon-midnight
Sunday – 1:00 p.m.-7:00 p.m.

c) The use of public address equipment for rallies, speakers, and
concerts in other campus locations is permitted if the use and event
does not conflict with a prior scheduled event or ongoing functions of
the University. Any one event is limited to 4 hours during the following
hours:

Saturday-Sunday – noon-6:00 p.m.

d) Any exceptions to the above guidelines must have the recommendation
of the Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs and Services and
be approved by the Secretary of the Board of Trustees.

3) For information on the use of sound trucks and other mobile units see
_Public Address Equipment_ and _Ordinance 39.00_. In general, their use
is restricted to the period from 5:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m.

4) The use of temporary or permanent public address systems within
University buildings for concerts, dances, rallies, demonstrations, and
student meetings must be approved by those responsible for the
scheduling or management of the building.

5) Development of policies concerning the use of equipment such as
stereos, radios, and musical instruments inside the residence halls is
the responsibility of the residence hall government, the Residence
Education and Housing Services staff, and residence hall management.

B. NON-STUDENTS

1) Faculty, staff, and others should contact the Office of the Secretary
of the Board of Trustees, 450 Administration Building, concerning their
request for public address equipment. A form will be available for those
requesting authorization to use public address equipment.

2) In general, approval for the use of public address equipment at
outdoor events will be granted if it would not be disruptive to ongoing
functions of the University, such as faculty and administrative offices,
research and laboratory facilities, libraries, classroom teaching, and
other scheduled University events. Locations for use of equipment will
be assigned or approved accordingly.

-   Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs and Services

-   Office of Secretary of the Board of Trustees

-   April 26, 1972
-   _http://trustees.msu.edu/ordinances/ordinances_sec15.html_
-   _http://trustees.msu.edu/ordinances/ordinances_sec39.html_

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
