Spartan Life Student Handbook - Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy

[Click here to print this page]



SMOKE AND TOBACCO-FREE POLICY


(All-University Policy) (Applicable to University employees as well as
students.)

Michigan State University (the “University”) is committed to eliminating
harmful exposure to smoke, tobacco, and environmental tobacco byproducts
and adopts the following smoke and tobacco-free policy.

1. No person shall (a) smoke, or (b) otherwise use any product derived
from or containing tobacco, on any property governed by the Board of
Trustees of Michigan State University. Ordinance 29.01.

2. Products derived from or containing tobacco may not be sold on any
property governed by the Board. Ordinance 29.02.

3. No person shall (a) smoke, or (b) otherwise use any product derived
from or containing tobacco, in any vehicle owned or leased by the
University.

4. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all FDA-approved nicotine replacement
therapy products are permitted when used for the purpose of cessation.
Other exceptions to this policy may be authorized by the Secretary of
the Board pursuant to guidelines issued by the Secretary of the Board.
Ordinance 29.04.

DEFINITIONS
For the purpose of this policy:

To “smoke” means inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or
heated tobacco or plant product intended for inhalation, whether natural
or synthetic. To “smoke” also includes the use with any such tobacco or
plant product of a pipe or hookah; of any electronic smoking device
which creates, in any manner, an aerosol or vapor, in any form; or any
other oral smoking device.

“Tobacco-derived or containing products” include, without being limited
to, cigarettes (including clove, bidis, kreteks), electronic cigarettes,
aerosol or vapor nicotine delivery devices, cigars and cigarillos, pipe
tobacco, hookah-smoked products, and oral tobacco (spit and spitless,
smokeless, chew, snuff).

APPLICATION OF POLICY TO ALL PERSONS
This policy applies to all persons on University property, including
students, faculty, employees, contractors, sub-contractors, and
visitors, and to all persons who use University vehicles. Conspicuous
signage will be posted on University grounds to inform the public that
the University campus is smoke and tobacco-free. Exceptions to this
policy may be authorized by the Secretary of the Board of Trustees
pursuant to established guidelines.

EDUCATION
University leaders, managers, supervisors, and facilities managers are
expected to educate employees regarding this policy and to promote
compliance in their areas of responsibility and on the larger campus.
University managers and supervisors are also expected to facilitate
attendance at University-sponsored programs for employees who desire to
become tobacco-free.

Residential community supervisors and Student Life staff are expected to
educate students regarding this policy and to promote compliance with
it.

ENFORCEMENT
The success of this policy requires the cooperation of all members of
the University community, not only through personal compliance with this
policy, but by encouraging others to comply.

Concerns about smoking and tobacco use should be addressed in the moment
whenever feasible. Continued concerns should be referred to the
appropriate unit responsible for review and action:

-   Faculty and Employees (including student employees) – issues should
    be referred to the employee’s supervisor or the employing unit head
-   Students – issues should be referred to residential community
    supervisors or Student Conduct and Conflict Resolution
-   Contractors and Subcontractors – issues should be referred to the
    campus unit responsible for monitoring performance under the
    contract
-   Visitors – issues should be referred to the visitor’s host or to the
    University Police

Persons who violate this policy will be subject to disciplinary action.

SMOKING CESSATION PROGRAMS AND PRODUCTS
University-sponsored smoking cessation programs are available to assist
students, faculty, and employees who wish to quit smoking.

-   Board of Trustees

-   July 16, 1993
-   Amended Effective August 15, 2016

 

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
