Spartan Life Student Handbook - Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU
Student Organizations

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹

[Click here to print this page]



UNDERCOVER SURVEILLANCE INVOLVING MSU STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS¹


In its Resolution of September 17, 2001, the MSU Board of Trustees
directed that undercover surveillance of student organizations should
occur only in “extraordinary circumstances” and should not be a part of
normal police operations. The Board further directed that the University
President is responsible for implementation of this Resolution.

Undercover surveillance potentially threatens the delicate balance in an
academic community between protecting freedom and ensuring security. To
safeguard individual liberties, the President should consider the
mission of the university before responding to a request to approve
undercover surveillance of student organizations. In addition, the
President must have a workable definition of “extraordinary
circumstances” to guide him or her.

This statement defines “extraordinary circumstances” as situations in
which reasonable cause exists to conclude that actions of MSU student
groups on campus could lead to loss of life, physical harm or
substantial property damage. Peaceful protests or demonstrations are not
“extraordinary circumstances”.

GUIDELINES FOR CONDUCTING UNDERCOVER SURVEILLANCE OF MSU STUDENT
ORGANIZATIONS

1. If the Police Chief has reason to believe that the conditions for
“extraordinary circumstances” have been met, he/she must inform the
President before taking action.

2. The President then determines if the situation constitutes
“extraordinary circumstances”.

3. Before determining that undercover surveillance is necessary, the
President should seek advice and options from the following:

a. General Counsel

b. Vice President for Student Affairs and Services

c. Provost

4. If feasible, the President should seek student input.

5. Given the advice and options provided by these parties, the President
should determine an appropriate course of action to ensure the safety of
the campus and an environment that promotes and protects individual
liberties.

6. If the President determines that undercover surveillance of a student
organization is appropriate, he or she should set clear goals and the
parameters for the surveillance. Any need for significant changes in the
goals or parameters of the surveillance shall be reported to the
President to determine whether those changes are authorized in
accordance with this procedure.

7. The Police Chief will provide weekly reports regarding the ongoing
undercover surveillance to the President.

8. Approval for undercover surveillance of an MSU student organization
will expire when the “extraordinary circumstances” no longer exist and,
in all cases, after a four month period, unless the President extends
the surveillance.

RECORDS REGARDING UNDERCOVER SURVEILLANCE OF MSU STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS
If the President authorizes an undercover surveillance, the University
will prepare and maintain indefinitely a written record available to the
public containing the following procedural information:

1. The fact that undercover surveillance was conducted of an MSU student
organization.

2. The fact that such undercover surveillance was approved in accordance
with these guidelines, including a list of any other options considered,
and a list of University officials consulted.

3. The dates of the surveillance.

4. Whether an arrest or conviction occurred as a result of the
surveillance.

If the Police Chief requests an undercover surveillance of an MSU
student organization, and if the President refers the matter to a law
enforcement agency external to MSU, the University will prepare and
maintain indefinitely a written record of this referral.

To protect the privacy of the parties investigated, this written record
will not contain the names of the individuals or organizations that were
the subject of undercover surveillance.

The maintenance and release of other records, if any, regarding the
undercover surveillance will be governed by applicable law and existing
university record-keeping and destruction policies.

‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾
¹ These recommendations are applicable to undercover police surveillance
of registered student organizations as well as to student groups which
are not registered student organizations. In other words, the
recommendations apply to student organizations as broadly understood.
The recommendations do not, however, restrict undercover police activity
with respect to groups of students who may be committing crimes for
personal benefit like selling drugs or fencing stolen property. The main
purpose of the recommendations is to protect individual liberties in the
context of political and social activism.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
