Spartan Life Student Handbook - Criteria for Hold Use

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
            -   Authority for Hold Use
            -   Criteria for Hold Use
            -   Further General Stipulations
            -   Judicial Review
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and University
Services

> Criteria for Hold Use

[Click here to print this page]



CRITERIA FOR HOLD USE


1. FINANCIAL HOLDS
Criteria for use of the financial hold shall be as follows:

a. Holds may be employed to collect any financial obligations due to the
University’s operating funds or to student loan funds. Examples of these
obligations are: student tuition, residence hall room and board,
deferred payments, traffic violations, delinquent parking tickets,
charges for damages to University property, University housing apartment
rent, past due loans (including ASMSU Student Loan Fund), library fines,
bad checks/ACH cashed by students or presented in payment of student
indebtedness, charges originating in various operating units (such as
the Health Center, MSU Union, Veterinary Clinic, etc.), overdrafts in
student organization accounts, etc.

b. Holds may not be used for collection of debts owed to any
non-University agency. For purposes of this administrative ruling,
registered student organizations and student media groups (newspapers
and radio) are defined as non-University agencies.

c. Except in the case of checks/ACH, holds may be used only in those
cases in which the student has been given or sent adequate notice of his
or her indebtedness and warning of hold use prior to issuance of the
hold.

d. A current list of all University agencies authorized by the Vice
President for Finance and Treasurer to issue financial holds shall be
maintained by Student Account Services Office of the Controller.

e. Students are entitled to appeal the legitimacy of charges placed
against them through established due process procedures. Students are
expected to exercise these rights at the time of original notification
of indebtedness.

f. A student will not be permitted to enroll for courses, be registered,
be re-admitted to the University, have an application for admission to a
new program of study processed, or receive services such as transcripts
and diplomas, if a financial hold has been placed on the student.
Additionally, in some circumstances, financial aid processing may be
withheld if a financial hold has been placed.

g. If a student has enrolled for courses and has not paid the financial
obligation which created the financial hold by a specified due date, the
student will be dropped from the courses in which he/she is enrolled.

2. JUDICIAL HOLDS
Judicial bodies and administrative officers may make use of judicial
holds in two cases:

a. Holds may be issued against a student who has been suspended under
the procedures outlined in _Michigan State University Student Rights and
Responsibilities_, _Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities_, _Law
Student Rights and Responsibilities,_ or _Medical Student Rights and
Responsibilities_, to prevent the student’s reenrollment and/or
registration.

b. Holds may be issued against a student in order to require the student
to appear at an administrator’s office so that the student can be
provided with a written statement of an alleged violation of regulations
and impending judicial or administrative proceedings when attempts to
reach the student by certified mail and by telephone have proven
unsuccessful.

c. A judicial hold may prevent a student from being readmitted to the
University, having an application for admission to a new program of
study processed, enrolling in courses, and registering (paying of fees)
depending upon the time within the academic semester when the hold is
placed.

d. The Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs and Services or
the Office of the Provost shall authorize each instance of judicial
holds under the terms of the criteria in the above sections.

3. ACADEMIC HOLDS

a. The Provost and College deans and their designees are authorized to
issue an academic hold which prevents a student from enrolling in
courses and registering (paying of fees) because the student (1) has not
met or needs to complete an academic requirement, e.g., has not declared
a major, has failed to meet conditions of reinstatement or readmission,
has failed to take the international student English proficiency test,
has failed to supply required transcripts; (2) has been recessed or
dismissed; (3) needs to see an academic adviser due to academic-related
issues; or (4) has not met or needs to complete a recognized obligation
incurred in the regular course of an academic program or in utilizing an
academic service.

b. The student shall have had reasonable opportunity to be informed of
and to comply with the academic requirement and shall have been given or
sent warning prior to issuance of a hold.

c. To ensure that the above conditions and criteria are being met, the
persons and agencies authorized to issue academic holds shall provide a
copy of their hold use procedures to the Office of the Provost for
review and approval.

4. ADMINISTRATIVE HOLDS

a. The Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs and Services
will authorize agencies which may place an administrative hold which
prevents students from enrolling in courses and registering (payment of
fees) and/or financial aid processing. Administrative holds are placed
on students who have failed to meet a requirement which has been
established by University policy or regulation such as, but not limited
to, financial aid requirements, student housing policy, and
international student health insurance. Within this category are those
regulations with which a student must comply prior to enrollment. A
current list of all University agencies authorized by the Office of the
Vice President for Student Affairs and Services to issue administrative
holds shall be maintained by the Office of the Vice President for
Student Affairs and Services.

b. The student shall have had reasonable opportunity to be informed of
and to comply with the administrative requirement and shall have been
given or sent warning prior to issuance of a hold.

c. To ensure that the above conditions and criteria are being met, the
persons and agencies authorized to issue administrative holds shall
provide a copy of their hold use procedures to the Office of the Vice
President for Student Affairs and Services for review and approval.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
