Spartan Life Student Handbook - Further General Stipulations

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
            -   Authority for Hold Use
            -   Criteria for Hold Use
            -   Further General Stipulations
            -   Judicial Review
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and University
Services

> Further General Stipulations

[Click here to print this page]



FURTHER GENERAL STIPULATIONS


1. Agencies and authorized personnel of the University shall make every
effort to minimize the use of holds and shall employ alternative methods
to accomplish their purposes whenever feasible.

2. Procedures for financial hold use shall be developed by the Office of
the Vice President for Finance. Procedures for judicial hold use shall
be developed by the Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs and
Services and the Office of the Provost. Procedures for academic hold use
shall be developed by the Office of the Provost. Procedures for
administrative hold use shall be developed by the Office of the Vice
President for Student Affairs and Services. All procedures shall include
provision for the following:

a. Adequate prior notice to the student (including all pertinent
details) of pending placement of a hold, prior to issuance except in the
case of bad checks/ACH.

b. Procedures for the student to challenge the placement of a hold,
prior to the issuance of a hold.

c. While a student is in the process of appealing the case in question,
the hold will not be issued.

d. Review by the offices responsible for developing hold use procedures
to ensure that the administrative ruling on holds is being accurately
and consistently followed.

3. When a student has satisfied the conditions which precipitated a
hold, the responsible agency or administrator placing the hold will
ensure that the hold is removed.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
