Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 3: Student Records

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Preface
    -   Article 1: Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Law Students
    -   Article 3: Student Records
    -   Article 4: Law Student Support
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Cases
    -   Article 6: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Law Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 3: Student Records

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 3: STUDENT RECORDS


3.1 Record practices within the College of Law shall be based on respect
for the privacy of individual law students, as well as on current
federal and state laws.

3.2 All policies and practices governing access, maintenance, and
release of law student records shall conform to the University’s
policies governing the release of student records. Changes to record
policies shall be made known to law students.

3.2.1 No record shall be made, duplicated, or retained unless it is
needed for University or College of Law operations.

3.2.2 Neither the University or the College of Law shall make,
duplicate, or retain records of a law student’s religious or political
beliefs without the law student’s knowledge and consent.

3.2.3 Each law student shall have the right to inspect his or her own
educational records, except confidential letters of recommendation. Each
law student shall also have the right to inspect reports and evaluations
of his or her academic performance and conduct.

3.2.4 All policies and practices dealing with the acquisition and
dissemination of information in student records shall be formulated with
due regard for the law student’s rights of privacy and access.

3.2.5 The College of Law shall train persons handling confidential
records regarding appropriate methods of keeping such records.

3.2.6 Except as permitted by law, neither the University nor the College
of Law shall provide access to a law student’s disciplinary record
without the written permission of the student.

3.2.7 College of Law policies governing the maintenance and the release
of records shall be subject to judicial review as provided in Article 5.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
