Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 2: Academic Rights and
Responsibilities for Law Students

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Preface
    -   Article 1: Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Law Students
    -   Article 3: Student Records
    -   Article 4: Law Student Support
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Cases
    -   Article 6: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Law Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Law Students

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 2: ACADEMIC RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES FOR LAW STUDENTS


2.1 PREAMBLE

2.1.1 The establishment and maintenance of the proper relationship
between instructor and student are fundamental to the College’s function
and require both instructor and student to recognize the rights and
responsibilities that derive from that relationship. The relationship
between instructor and student should be founded on mutual respect and
understanding together with shared dedication to the educational
process.

2.2. ROLE OF THE FACULTY IN THE INSTRUCTIONAL PROCESS

2.2.1 No provision for the rights of law students can be valid that
suspends the rights of the faculty. The law student’s right to competent
instruction must be reconciled with the rights of the faculty,
consistent with the principle that the competency of a professional can
be rightly judged only by professionals. It is, therefore, acknowledged
and mandated that competence of instruction shall be judged by the
faculty.

2.2.1.1 Grades assigned by law faculty may be challenged or changed only
in accordance with the Grade Change Policy in the Michigan State
University College of Law Student Handbook
(_http://www.law.msu.edu/engagement/handbook/grade-change-policy.html_).

2.2.2 The College of Law shall provide clearly defined channels for the
receipt and consideration of law student complaints concerning
instruction. In no instance shall a dispute concerning the competence of
instruction form the basis for a grievance under this document.

2.2.3 Faculty shall have authority and responsibility for academic
policy and practices in areas such as degree eligibility and
requirements, course content and grading, classroom procedure, and
standards of professional behavior in accordance with the Bylaws for
Academic Governance
(_http://www.law.msu.edu/faculty_staff/GovBylawsAmend.pdf_), the College
of Law Faculty Handbook, and other documents on faculty rights and
responsibilities.

2.2.3.1 It shall be the responsibility of the faculty of the College of
Law to establish and disseminate academic and professional requirements
and the methods for evaluating student performance in their classes.

2.2.4 No hearing board established under this document shall direct a
change in the evaluation of a law student that represents a course
instructor’s or instructional committee’s good faith judgment about the
law student’s academic performance. In the event that the College of
Law, in conformance with the Michigan State University College of Law
Faculty Handbook, determines based on clear and convincing evidence that
an evaluation was based on factors other than good faith judgment about
the law student’s academic performance, the Dean of the College of Law
shall direct that the student’s performance be reassessed and that a
good faith evaluation be conducted pursuant to the Michigan State
University College of Law Faculty Handbook. Recognizing that such a
re-evaluation cannot replicate original assessment conditions and
context, any remedy available under this section shall be limited to
evaluating the student’s performance under a pass/fail or
credit/no-credit standard. In no circumstance shall any grade entered by
a College of Law faculty member be changed to a different grade.

2.3 LAW STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.3.1 In all areas of legal education, the College of Law shall comply
with the University’s Anti-Discrimination Policy and all other
University policies.

2.3.2 The law student has a right to accurate, timely, and clearly
written information concerning general academic requirements for
establishing and maintaining an acceptable academic standing, the law
student’s academic relationship with the University and College of Law,
and any special academic conditions that may apply to the law student.
Requirements for the student’s academic program and written academic
regulations, including codes of professional behavior, shall be made
known to the law student by the College of Law at the time of the law
student’s enrollment, although such codes and regulations may, from time
to time, be updated and amended and applicable in such a manner and at
such a time as the faculty assembled in good faith shall determine to be
necessary. Law students are responsible for informing themselves of
University and College of Law requirements stated in College of Law
publications and in the University catalog. In planning to meet such
requirements, students are responsible for consulting with the Assistant
or Associate Dean for Student Engagement (or designee of such Dean).

2.3.3 The law student has a right to seek advice from the student’s
instructors, or the Assistant or Associate Dean of Student Engagement
(or a designee of such dean), concerning program planning, research,
professional expectations, selection of courses and professors, and
general degree requirements. See Michigan State University College of
Law Student Handbook
(_http://www.law.msu.edu/engagement/handbook/course-selection.html_).

2.3.4 The College of Law shall maintain records for law students,
specifying and/or containing degree requirements, course waivers and
substitutions, program changes, and other stipulations directly
affecting their degree programs. Law students shall be provided access
to and a copy of these records upon request.

2.3.5 Subject to Section 2.2, the law student shall be free to take
respectful and reasoned exception to information and views offered in
instructional contexts and to reserve judgment about matters of opinion,
without penalty or reprisal.

2.3.6 Law students and faculty share responsibility for maintaining
classroom decorum and a collegial atmosphere that promotes teaching and
learning.

2.3.7 Each law student shares with the faculty responsibility for
maintaining the integrity of scholarship, grades, client representation,
and professional standards.

2.3.8 The law student is responsible for learning the content of a
course of study according to standards of performance established by the
faculty. The law student is also responsible for adhering to standards
of professional behavior established by the College of Law.

2.3.9 The law student has a right to academic evaluations that represent
good faith judgments of academic performance by course instructors.
Course grades shall represent the instructor’s or instructors’
professional evaluation of the law student’s academic performance,
including compliance with professional standards. Instructors shall
comply with the University Code of Teaching Responsibility. (See also
The Code of Teaching Responsibility.)

2.3.10 Faculty, academic staff, and support staff must respect the
privacy of information concerning the law student’s academic performance
and the law student’s values, beliefs, organizational affiliations, and
health. (See also Article 3, infra.)

2.3.11 Law students and faculty members share responsibility for
maintaining professional relationships based on mutual trust and
civility.

2.3.12 Faculty, academic staff, and support staff may not exploit law
students. “Exploit” means to make a selfish, corrupt, or unethical use
of the labor, time, or talents of a student. There is no prohibition of
the ordinary and ethical use of student talents for the benefit of
students’ professional development and for the advancement of knowledge.
Professors should always give students appropriate and fair credit for
their individual work and assure that their work as a research assistant
is compensated fully. Law students shall receive recognition for
scholarly assistance to faculty.

2.3.13 The law student has the right to refuse to participate in any
research being conducted by faculty without penalty or reprisal.

2.3.14 The law student has a right to have his/her grievance/complaint
arising under the LSRR adjudicated in accordance with the procedures
established in this document and in the Academic Hearing Procedures for
Michigan State University College of Law.

2.3.15 Subject to Section 1.6, the law student subject to disciplinary
action for alleged unprofessional behavior has a right to an explanation
from the appropriate College of Law faculty member, instructor,
supervisor, or administrator regarding the allegation, including how the
judgment of unprofessional behavior was made, and the right to appeal.

2.4 ACADEMIC PROGRAMMING

2.4.1 COLLEGE LEVEL

2.4.1.1 CODE OF PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS. Law students shall abide by the
professional and educational standards and all regulations provided in
the Michigan State University College of Law Student Handbook
(_http://www.law.msu.edu/students/student-handbook.html_). This
statement of Law Student Rights and Responsibilities shall be
interpreted and applied in accordance with and for the purpose of
inculcating the standards of conduct, ethics, and professionalism
applicable to attorneys and the legal community, in particular with
College of Law satisfaction of all requirements relating to American Bar
Association and Association of American Law Schools accreditation.

2.4.1.2 EVALUATION. The College of Law shall evaluate law students’
academic progress, performance, and professional potential.

2.4.1.2.1 When a law student’s progress or performance is
unsatisfactory, the College of Law shall so notify the student in
writing in a timely manner, and a copy of that notice shall be placed in
the student’s file.

2.4.1.3 The College of Law shall make reasonable efforts to identify
those students who have problems with academic performance, including
compliance with professional standards, and when appropriate, to provide
opportunities for remediation and/or improvement.

2.4.1.4 REMOVAL. The College of Law shall protect clients and the
general public from unprofessional conduct and from performance that
falls below minimally acceptable professional standards of care and
rules of professional ethics on the part of its students. In urgent
cases, the College of Law must remove from client contact any student
who has been found by the student’s instructor or supervising attorney
to have engaged in unprofessional conduct that presents a significant
possibility of immediate harm to clients or to the general public. In
cases not presenting an immediate threat of harm to clients or to the
general public, the instructor or supervising attorney shall have
discretion to exercise professional judgment regarding whether removal
is necessary or whether to provide the student with opportunities for
remediation and/or improvement.

2.4.1.5 DISMISSALS AND WITHDRAWALS. The College of Law shall establish
criteria for the dismissal or withdrawal of law students enrolled in its
law programs. Such criteria shall be published and made available to law
students at the time they begin their law programs. See Michigan State
University College of Law Student Handbook
(_http://www.law.msu.edu/students/student-handbook.html_). Should a
decision to dismiss a law student be made by the Dean of the College of
Law, the affected law student shall be so notified in writing in a
timely manner, and the law student may request a review for
reinstatement in accordance with the College of Law Probation-Dismissal
procedures
(_http://www.law.msu.edu/engagement/handbook/probation.html_). All
information regarding the decision to dismiss is confidential and shall
only be shared in accordance with College and University policies
governing the release of student records.

2.4.1.5.1 The College of Law shall deal expeditiously with all academic
dismissals, disciplinary dismissals, suspensions, appeals, and
grievances.

2.4.2 JOINT LAW/GRADUATE PROGRAM STUDENTS AND VISITING STUDENTS

2.4.2.1 Joint law/graduate program students and visiting students are
responsible at the time they are enrolled in each program to review
applicable University and College of Law requirements.

2.4.2.2 This document governs rights and responsibilities related to the
law program of a joint law/graduate program student. The Graduate
Student Rights and Responsibilities document (“GSRR”) or the Medical
Student Rights and Responsibilities document (“MSRR”), in cases
involving joint programs for medical students, governs rights and
responsibilities related to the graduate program of a joint law/graduate
program student. The GSRR is available at
_http://splife.studentlife.msu.edu/graduate-student-rights-and-responsibilities_;
the MSRR is available at
_http://splife.studentlife.msu.edu/medical-student-rights-and-responsibilites-mssr_.

2.4.2.3 Complaints/grievances arising from the application of this
document or of the GSRR (or, in appropriate cases, the MSRR) to a
student enrolled in College of Law courses shall be referred to the
appropriate hearing board. The Dean of the Graduate School will
determine the hearing board to which the case will be referred.
Notwithstanding this provision, the Code of Student Discipline continues
to apply to all law student conduct.

2.5 PARTICIPATION IN ACADEMIC GOVERNANCE

2.5.1 The College of Law shall make provision for law student
participation on appropriate governance committees within the college
and University as specified by the relevant bylaws.

2.5.2 This document shall be consistent with guidelines put forward by
the national professional organizations of the College of Law.

2.5.3 Law student representatives shall participate as voting members on
those College of Law committees identified in the Michigan State
University College of Law Bylaws as committees that must include a law
student as a voting member or members.

2.5.4 The College of Law shall inform its students in a timely manner of
the committee positions that law students may hold, their duties and
lengths of appointment, and the process by which law students are
selected for appointment.

2.5.5 At the University level, law students (also referred to as
graduate-professional students) shall be selected and shall have voting
membership on the University Graduate Council, Academic Council, and
other committees as may be specified by the Bylaws for Academic
Governance.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
