Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 6: Procedure for Amending and
Revising this Document

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Preface
    -   Article 1: Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Law Students
    -   Article 3: Student Records
    -   Article 4: Law Student Support
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Cases
    -   Article 6: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Law Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 6: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 6: PROCEDURE FOR AMENDING AND REVISING THIS DOCUMENT


6.1 INITIATION OF PROPOSALS FOR AMENDMENT: Any member of the College of
Law community may initiate a proposal to amend or revise this document.
All such proposals shall be referred to the Academic Standards Committee
and the Student Bar Association. Upon a majority vote in favor of the
proposal by both the Academic Standards Committee and the Student Bar
Association, the Academic Standards Committee shall submit the proposal,
with a recommendation, to the faculty assembled for approval.

6.1.2 AMENDMENTS REQUIRED BY LAW, PROFESSIONAL ETHICS, OR ACCREDITATION
AGENCIES: In the event a change in substance or interpretation of any
law, standard of professional ethics, or accreditation agency
requirements requires a change in this document, such proposal shall be
submitted to the Academic Standards Committee for approval and
recommendation to the Faculty Assembled. A copy shall be submitted to
the Student Bar Association for comment, but not approval.

6.2 APPROVAL OF AMENDMENT PROPOSAL BY FACULTY ASSEMBLED: This statement
of Law Student Rights and Responsibilities may be amended from time to
time by majority vote of the Faculty Assembled as a matter relating to
academic standards. Such amendments shall become effective only upon
final approval of the amendment as described in Section 6.3.

6.3 APPROVAL PROCESS: Proposals for amending or revising this document
that have been approved by the Faculty Assembled shall be submitted to
the University Council.

6.3.1 The University Council shall review the proposed amendment or
revision and either approve or reject it in accordance with the Bylaws
for Academic Governance. A proposed amendment/revision that is rejected
by the University Council shall be returned to the College of Law
Faculty Assembled and Faculty Advisory Council along with a written
explanation for the rejection. This explanation may include suggestions
for alteration of the proposal. A proposed amendment or revision that is
approved by the University Council shall be forwarded to the President,
who shall present it to the Board of Trustees for the College of Law.

6.3.2 The Board of Trustees for the College of Law shall review each
proposed amendment and revision to this document and may approve it, at
which time it shall become effective, or reject it and return it to the
University Council.

6.3.3 The Dean of the College of Law shall be responsible for informing
College of Law faculty and law students of the action taken on a
proposed amendment or revision.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
