Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 1: Law Student Rights and
Responsibilities

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Preface
    -   Article 1: Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Law Students
    -   Article 3: Student Records
    -   Article 4: Law Student Support
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Cases
    -   Article 6: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Law Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 1: Law Student Rights and Responsibilities

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 1: LAW STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES


1.1 Michigan State University is a community of scholars. The basic
purposes of the University are the advancement, dissemination, and
application of knowledge. While engaged in these activities, the
University seeks to provide an environment conducive to instruction,
research, and service.

1.2 Each right of an individual places a reciprocal responsibility upon
others: the responsibility to permit the individual to exercise the
right. The law student, as a member of the academic community, has both
rights and responsibilities. Within that community, the law student’s
most essential right is the right to learn. The University provides for
the law student those privileges, opportunities, and protections that
best promote the learning process in all its aspects. The law student
has responsibilities to other members of the academic community, the
bar, and to clients and the general public.

1.3 Regulations governing the activities and conduct of student groups
and individual law students do not attempt to specify all prohibited and
permitted conduct. Rather, they are intended to govern conduct that
seriously interferes with the basic purposes and processes of the
community or with the rights of members of the community.

1.4 The law student is not only a member of the academic community, but
also a citizen of the larger society who retains those rights,
protections, and guarantees of fair treatment held by all citizens.

1.5 GUIDELINES REGARDING LAW STUDENT REGULATIONS

1.5.1 The College of Law shall not enact student regulations unless
there is a demonstrable need for them that is reasonably related to the
basic purposes and necessities of the College.

1.5.2 The College of Law shall provide opportunities for law students to
participate in formulating and revising regulations governing law
student conduct.

1.5.3 All regulations governing law student rights and responsibilities,
including both University and College of Law policies, shall be made
available to law students in print or in electronic form. The Michigan
State University College of Law Student Handbook
(_http://www.law.msu.edu/__students__/student-handbook.html_) and the
Michigan State University College of Law Faculty Handbook are
incorporated herein by reference.

1.5.4 The College of Law shall make reasonable efforts to ensure that
every regulation is brief, clear, and specific.

1.5.5 Wherever rights conflict, regulations shall, to the maximum extent
feasible, permit reasonable scope for each conflicting right by defining
the circumstances of time, place, and means appropriate to its exercise.

1.5.6 Regulations shall respect the free expression of ideas and shall
encourage the competition of ideas from diverse perspectives.

1.5.7 Penalties shall be commensurate with the seriousness of the
offense. Repeated violations may justify increasingly severe penalties.

1.5.8 There shall be clearly defined channels and procedures for the
appeal and/or review of:

a. The finding of a violation of a regulation.

b. The reasonableness, under the circumstances, of the penalty imposed
for a violation.

c. A regulation or administrative decision that is alleged to be
inconsistent with guidelines in this document.

d. Alleged violations of the complaint/grievance procedures set forth in
Article V of this document.

1.5.9 Every regulation shall specify to whom it applies and whether
responsibility for compliance lies with law students.

1.6 RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN LSRR AND CODE OF STUDENT DISCIPLINE

1.6.1 As aspiring members of the legal profession generally, and of one
or more state bar associations specifically, law students are subject to
standards of conduct relating to their character and fitness to engage
in the practice of law. The obligation to assess the character and
fitness of law students is imposed upon the faculty and administration
of the College of Law, and is not appropriately delegated in any manner
to non-lawyers.

1.6.2 The Code of Student Discipline
(_http://www.law.msu.edu/engagement/handbook/code-discipline.html_),
subject to Section 1.6.4, provides the exclusive process and standards
under which the College of Law will assess, discipline, and report
matters going to the character and fitness of a law student to engage in
the practice of law.

1.6.2.1 Matters falling within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Code of
Student Discipline are those matters listed in Paragraph A.3 of the Code
of Student Discipline.

1.6.3 The LSRR describes the rights and responsibilities of law students
in all matters not falling under the jurisdiction of the Code of Student
Discipline. All matters arising within the jurisdiction of the LSRR are
subject to the procedures described in the Academic Hearing Procedures
for Michigan State University College of Law
(_https://www.law.msu.edu/engagement/handbook/academic_hearing_procedures_for_msu_col.html_).

1.6.3.1 Matters arising within the LSRR and decided under the Academic
Hearing Procedures for Michigan State University College of Law may be
appealed under the procedures of Section 5.7.

1.6.3.2 Matters arising under the Code of Student Discipline and decided
under the hearing procedures provided therein may be appealed only
pursuant to the procedures described therein.

1.6.4 In appropriate cases, matters arising under the LSRR may be
reported to a character and fitness committee (or equivalent) for a
state bar if it is determined that those matters implicate the
obligation of the College of Law to report matters relating to a law
student’s character and fitness to engage in the practice of law to a
state bar to which the law student seeks admission.

1.6.5 DETERMINATIONS REGARDING JURISDICTION OF THE CODE OF STUDENT
DISCIPLINE AND THE LSRR

1.6.5.1 Subject to Section 5.4 and Section 1.6.4, the Associate Dean for
Student Engagement or the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs shall make
an initial determination whether the matter raises issues going to
character and fitness and must be decided under the procedures and
standards of the Code of Student Discipline or whether the matter is not
within the Code of Student Discipline and therefore must be decided
under the procedures and standards of the LSRR and the Academic Hearing
Procedures.

1.6.5.2 Any student whose matter is determined to be within the scope of
the Code of Student Discipline may appeal that decision to the Dean. In
the event the Dean determines that the matter is subject to the Code of
Student Discipline, the student may appeal the Dean’s determination that
the matter is subject to the Code of Student Discipline to a faculty
hearing board organized pursuant to Section 5 of the Code of Student
Discipline.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
