Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 4: Law Student Support

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Preface
    -   Article 1: Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Law Students
    -   Article 3: Student Records
    -   Article 4: Law Student Support
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Cases
    -   Article 6: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Law Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 4: Law Student Support

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 4: LAW STUDENT SUPPORT


4.1 CLASSES OF SUPPORT

4.1.1 Law students receiving support from the University fall primarily
into three classes:

a. Students employed by individual faculty part-time as “Research
Assistants” or “Teaching Assistants”;

b. University or College of Law employees; and

c. Fellowship, scholarship, and/or grant recipients.

4.2 RESEARCH AND TEACHING ASSISTANTS

4.2.1 This Article (Article 4) deals only with the employment of
part-time research and teaching assistants not represented by the
Graduate Employees Union (“GEU”). Accordingly, for the purposes of this
document, the terms “research assistant” and “teaching assistant” do not
include members of the GEU. Information related to the employment of
graduate teaching assistants included in the GEU bargaining unit is
included in the collective bargaining agreement between the University
and the GEU.

4.2.2 Law students who are research or teaching assistants are appointed
in accordance with College of Law policies governing research and
teaching assistantships. Research or teaching assistant duties may
include, but are not limited to: student advising, conduct of review
sessions or labs, writing supervision, reading of papers and
examinations, and research. The responsibilities delegated to a research
or teaching assistant must be performed under the supervision of a
faculty member, staff member, or administrator.

4.2.3 Individual members of the law faculty, staff, or administrators
are responsible for criteria for selecting, renewing, or terminating
research or teaching assistants; length of term; work load and duties
(consistent with American Bar Association and Association of American
Law Schools standards on student working hours and conditions).
Grievance procedures shall be governed by this statement of Law Student
Rights and Responsibilities.

4.2.4 The Associate Dean of Finance and Administration (or designee of
such Dean) shall establish a College of Law policy for research
assistant and teaching assistant wages. This office approves individual
law faculty requests for all payments above the established maximums.

4.2.5 Law students who are research or teaching assistants should
receive the same professional respect accorded to faculty, within the
constraints of their training, experience, and responsibilities.

4.3 COLLEGE OF LAW-EMPLOYED AND UNIVERSITY EMPLOYED LAW STUDENTS

4.3.1 The College of Law’s Associate Dean of Finance and Administration
shall determine annually minimum and maximum hourly wages for College of
Law-employed law students. This office approves individual law faculty
requests for all payments above the established maximums. This section
applies only to part-time law student workers employed at hourly wages
by the College of Law.

4.3.2 University or College of Law employees who are pursuing law study
continue to be bound by collective bargaining agreements and/or other
applicable University or College of Law personnel policies and
agreements with respect to their employment.

4.4 UNIVERSITY POLICIES RELATING TO LAW STUDENT SUPPORT RECIPIENTS

4.4.1 Employment practices within the College of Law shall conform to
the University’s Anti-Discrimination Policy and all other relevant
University policies.

4.4.2 Part-time law student workers employed at hourly wages by the
College of Law are employed at will. A law student’s dismissal from an
academic program may also terminate the law student’s employment,
assistantship, or other support. Law students who believe they have a
grievance under this Article may utilize the procedures set forth in
Article 5.

4.4.2.1 In cases where the law student contends that action of the
University or the College of Law may cause immediate and irreparable
harm, the law student may ask the appropriate judiciary for an expedited
hearing.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
