Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 5: Adjudication of Cases

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Preface
    -   Article 1: Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Law Students
    -   Article 3: Student Records
    -   Article 4: Law Student Support
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Cases
    -   Article 6: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Law Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 5: Adjudication of Cases

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 5: ADJUDICATION OF CASES


5.1 ACADEMIC GRIEVANCES

5.1.1 A grievance is defined as an allegation filed by a law student
against a faculty, academic staff, or support staff member of the
College of Law or University community.

5.1.2 Any law student may file a grievance within the time periods set
forth in Section 5.3.3.

5.1.3 A grievance may allege a violation of any of the rights of law
students under this document or challenge an academic evaluation on the
ground that the evaluation was based entirely or in part upon factors
other than a good faith judgment about the law student’s academic
performance, including compliance with applicable professional
standards.

5.1.3.1 A law student who receives a penalty grade based on a charge
relating to or arising from lack of academic integrity and who is not
referred for additional disciplinary action under the Code of Student
Discipline may contest the penalty grade by filing a grievance under
this section. Instructors seeking sanctions for academic dishonesty
other than or in addition to penalty grades must file a complaint under
Section 5.2.2. For purposes of this section, a “penalty grade” is a
grade assigned to a student by a faculty member based on a charge of
academic misconduct. “Penalty grade” does not include any grades or
grade reductions based upon factors described in a course syllabus as
relating to assessment for the course, including, but not limited to,
assignments, exams, deadlines, class participation, attendance,
tardiness, or respect for faculty or other students.

5.1.4 A student who has been dismissed for academic reasons by the
College of Law may file a grievance under this section alleging
procedural violations. Students may not file a grievance challenging
such a decision to dismiss on substantive grounds.

5.1.5 Where an instructor or a committee has rendered a judgment
regarding a law student’s academic performance, that judgment is
presumed to be made in good faith and the grievant bears the burden of
proving the contrary by clear and convincing evidence, with the
exception of allegations relating to or arising from lack of academic
integrity not referred for additional disciplinary action under the Code
of Student Discipline. In those cases, the faculty member bears the
burden of proof as to the act or actions allegedly constituting lack of
academic integrity.

5.2. COMPLAINTS

5.2.1 A complaint is defined as an allegation filed by a member of the
College of Law community against a law student.

5.2.1.1 Subject to Section 1.6, in all cases involving a complaint
against a law student, the Dean of the College of Law (or the designee
of such Dean) shall determine whether the complaint shall proceed under
the LSRR and Academic Hearing Procedures or under the Code of Student
Discipline.

5.2.2 Any member of the College of Law community may file a complaint
against a law student within the time periods set forth in Section 5.3.3
alleging a violation of this document, lack of academic integrity,
violation of professional standards, or falsification of admission or
academic records. (See also _Integrity of Scholarships and Grades_
policy.)

5.2.3 If a law student or a student enrolled in a joint law/graduate
program engages in conduct that would violate a student group
regulation, general student regulation, or University policy if the
conduct occurred on campus, that conduct may form the basis for a
complaint when the alleged violation impairs, interferes with, or
obstructs the mission, processes, or functions of the student’s College
of Law program.

5.3 GRIEVANCE AND COMPLAINT PROCEDURES

5.3.1 To file a grievance/complaint, the grievant/complainant must
submit a written, signed statement to the designated administrator of
the College of Law. The statement must contain the following
information:

A. the specific provision of this document or other policy/regulation
that has allegedly been violated;

B. the time, place, and nature of the alleged violation;

C. the person(s) against whom the grievance/complaint is filed;

D. a concise and plain statement of the sanction or remedy sought; and

E. whether a hearing is requested.

5.3.2 Anonymous complaints will not be accepted. Students may seek
assistance from the Office of Student Engagement to understand the
grievance process.

5.3.3 Grievances/Complaints must be filed no later than mid-term of the
fourteen-week semester following the one in which the alleged violation
occurred (exclusive of the scheduled vacation periods, such as summer
break (May – August) or winter break (December – January)). If either
party to a grievance/complaint is absent from the College of Law during
that semester, or if other appropriate reasons exist, an exception to
this time limit may be granted by the designated College administrator.
If either party to the grievance or complaint leaves the College of Law
prior to its resolution, the grievance/complaint may proceed or be
dismissed at the discretion of the chair of the hearing body.

5.4 ADMINISTRATIVE RESOLUTION

5.4.1 Where possible, a grievant or complainant is encouraged to seek
resolution and redress informally.

5.4.2 If problems arise in the relationship between instructor and
student, both should attempt to resolve them by informal, direct
discussions. If the problems remain unsolved through such informal
procedures, the Assistant/Associate Dean of Student Engagement and/or
the Associate Dean of Academic Affairs should be consulted. If a problem
is still unresolved, the matter shall be referred to the Dean of the
College of Law. If after reference to the Dean of the College of Law,
the problem remains unresolved, either individual may submit a grievance
or complaint under Article 5 of this LSRR.

5.4.3 A respondent who admits his/her violation of this document or
other policy/regulation waives his/her right to a hearing regarding the
underlying facts of that violation. In such a situation, the designated
College administrator shall propose an appropriate redress or sanction
for the violation. At that time, the respondent may choose to proceed to
a hearing on the sole issue of the appropriateness of the
sanction/redress.

5.5. SANCTIONS

5.5.1 COMPLAINTS: If it finds a violation, the hearing body may impose
one of the following sanctions:

5.5.1.1 WARNING: An official written statement advising the law student
that additional violations will result in more severe sanctions.

5.5.1.2 PROBATION: A period of time specified for observing and
evaluating a law student’s conduct, with or without special conditions,
including a written reprimand, with an indication that further
violations will result in more severe disciplinary action, including
suspension or dismissal from the College of Law. Probation will be
imposed for a specific period of time and, provided no further
violations have occurred, the law student shall automatically be removed
from probation when that period expires. Probation may be accompanied by
a requirement that restitution be made for University or College of Law
property damages or other losses resulting from the violation, or such
other requirements or special conditions as may be appropriate under the
circumstances.

5.5.1.3 SUSPENSION: A suspension from the College of Law may be for a
specified period of time, in which case the law student is eligible to
apply for readmission at the end of that period of time, or it may be a
conditional suspension, in which case the law student must demonstrate
that he/she has fulfilled stated conditions prior to applying for
readmission. Suspensions must be approved by the dean/designated college
administrator of the College of Law. If the dean/designated college
administrator does not approve the suspension, the dean/designated
college administrator may direct that another sanction be imposed. The
dean/designated college administrator will normally consult with the
hearing body before imposing another sanction.

5.5.1.4 DISMISSAL FROM THE COLLEGE OF LAW: Dismissals must be approved
by the Dean of the College of Law and the Provost. If the dismissal is
not approved, the Dean and Provost may direct that another sanction be
imposed. The Dean and Provost will normally consult with the hearing
body before imposing another sanction.

5.5.1.5 OTHER: Other disciplinary action deemed appropriate to a
specific case.

5.5.1.6 REPORTING CHARACTER AND FITNESS ISSUES: In appropriate cases,
matters arising herein may be reported to the character and fitness
section of any state bar to which the student seeks admission.

5.6.3 GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS

5.6.3.1 Any member of a hearing body who has a conflict of interest in a
complaint/grievance shall be disqualified from sitting on the hearing
body for that specific complaint/grievance. A “conflict of interest” is
defined as any academic, financial, scholarly, or social relationship
that would, in the judgment of the hearing body chair, impair the
ability of a member to make a fair and impartial judgment. In the event
that a member of a hearing body is disqualified, an alternate from the
appropriate student or faculty group will be selected according to the
established procedures for selecting members of that hearing body.

5.7 APPEALS

5.7.1 Appeals must be written and signed by the individual filing the
appeal and must specify the basis for appeal in sufficient detail to
justify further proceedings. Appeals shall be to the University Graduate
Professional Judiciary/Law and must be filed with the Dean of the
Graduate School.

5.7.2 Appeals must specify the redress that is sought.

5.7.3 New evidence may only be submitted to the appellate body if it is
relevant to the appeal and was previously unavailable to the individual
submitting it, although the individual acted with due diligence to
obtain such evidence.

5.7.4 Appeals must be filed within fourteen (14) class days following
the date of the hearing body’s decision. Except in urgent cases, any
redress or sanctions imposed by the hearing body will be held in
abeyance while the appeal is pending.

5.7.5 The appellate body shall review the appeal and forward a copy of
the appeal to the other party and invite a written response.

5.7.6 Appeals must allege either that applicable procedures for
adjudicating the case were not followed in the previous hearing or that
the findings of the hearing board were not supported by clear and
convincing evidence. (Presentation of new information will normally be
inappropriate at an appeal hearing.)

5.7.7 After considering the appeal and response, the appellate body may:

5.7.7.1 Decide that sufficient reasons for an appeal do not exist and
that the decision of the hearing body shall stand;

5.7.7.2 Direct the hearing body to rehear the case or to reconsider or
clarify its decision;

5.7.7.3 Decide that sufficient reasons exist for an appeal and schedule
an appeal hearing in a timely manner.

5.7.8 Following an appeal hearing, the appellate body may affirm,
reverse, or modify the decision of the hearing body. The appellate body
may also direct the hearing body to rehear the original
complaint/grievance.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
