Spartan Life Student Handbook - ARTICLE 7: Procedure for Amending and
Revising this Document

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
    -   Foreword
    -   Preface
    -   ARTICLE 1: Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   ARTICLE 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Medical
        Students
    -   ARTICLE 3: Student Records
    -   ARTICLE 4: Medical Student Support
    -   ARTICLE 5: Adjudication of Cases
    -   ARTICLE 6: Academic Governance
    -   ARTICLE 7: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)

> ARTICLE 7: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 7: PROCEDURE FOR AMENDING AND REVISING THIS DOCUMENT


7.1 Any member of the University community may initiate a proposal to
amend or revise this document.

7.2 A proposal to amend or revise this document must be concurrently
submitted, in written form, to the chairperson of the College Advisory
Council of each of the three medical colleges.

7.3 Upon receiving the proposed amendment or revision, each College
Advisory Council shall take the following action:

7.3.1 A written copy of the proposal must be distributed to all medical
students and voting faculty of the college.

7.3.2 All medical students and faculty must be advised in writing of
meetings(s) where the proposal will be discussed. Such meeting(s) may be
held separately for students and faculty or conjointly.

7.3.3 Ballots (either paper or electronic) must be provided to all
enrolled students and voting faculty in each of the medical colleges to
approve the proposed revision.

7.3.4 Approval of the proposed amendment/revision shall require a
majority vote in each medical college by all currently enrolled students
and voting faculty who submit a written ballot.

7.4 In the event that all three medical colleges do not approve the
proposed amendment/revision, each College Advisory Committee shall
select one faculty member and one student from its membership to meet to
coordinate further action.

7.5 Proposals for amending or revising this document that have been
approved by all the medical colleges shall be submitted to the Academic
Council.

7.6 The Academic Council shall review the proposed amendment/revision
and either approve or reject it in accordance with the _Bylaws for
Academic Governance_. A proposed amendment/revision that is rejected by
the Academic Council shall be returned to the College Advisory Council
of each medical college along with a written explanation for the
rejection. This explanation may include suggestions for alteration of
the proposal. A proposed amendment/revision that is approved by the
Academic Council shall be forwarded to the President, who shall present
it to the Board of Trustees.

7.7 The Board of Trustees shall review each proposed amendment and
revision to this document and may approve it, at which time it shall
become effective, or reject it and return it to the Academic Council.

7.8 The deans of the medical colleges shall be responsible for informing
college faculty and medical students of the action taken on a proposed
amendment/revision.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
