Spartan Life Student Handbook - ARTICLE 5: Adjudication of Cases

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
    -   Foreword
    -   Preface
    -   ARTICLE 1: Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   ARTICLE 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Medical
        Students
    -   ARTICLE 3: Student Records
    -   ARTICLE 4: Medical Student Support
    -   ARTICLE 5: Adjudication of Cases
    -   ARTICLE 6: Academic Governance
    -   ARTICLE 7: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)

> ARTICLE 5: Adjudication of Cases

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 5: ADJUDICATION OF CASES


5.1  ACADEMIC GRIEVANCES.

5.1.1 A grievance is defined as an allegation filed by a medical student
against a faculty, academic staff, or support staff member of the
University community.

5.1.2 Any medical student may file a grievance within the time periods
set forth in Article V, section 5.3.3.

5.1.3 A grievance may allege a violation of any of the rights of medical
students under this document or challenge an academic evaluation on the
ground that the evaluation was based entirely or in part upon factors
(e.g., race, sex, personal animus) other than a good faith judgment
about the medical student’s academic performance, including compliance
with applicable professional standards.

5.1.3.1 A medical student who receives a penalty grade based on a charge
of academic dishonesty and who is not referred for additional
disciplinary action may contest the penalty grade by filing a grievance
under this section. Instructors seeking sanctions for academic
dishonesty other than or in addition to penalty grades must file a
complaint under Article 5.2.2 of this document.

5.1.4 A student who has been dismissed for academic reasons by a medical
college’s student performance committee and/or dean’s office may file a
grievance under this section alleging procedural violations. Students
may not file a grievance challenging such a decision to dismiss on
substantive grounds.

5.1.5 Where an instructor or a committee has rendered a judgment
regarding a medical student’s academic performance, that judgment is
presumed to be made in good faith and the grievant bears the burden of
proving the contrary, with the exception of allegations of academic
dishonesty. In those cases, the faculty member bears the burden of
proof.

5.2. COMPLAINTS.

5.2.1 A complaint is defined as an allegation filed by a member of the
University community against a medical student.

5.2.2 Any member of the University community may file a complaint
against a medical student within the time periods set forth in Article
5.3.3 alleging a violation of this document, academic dishonesty,
violation of professional standards, or falsification of admission or
academic records. (See also _Integrity of Scholarships and Grades_
policy.)

5.2.3 If a medical student or a student enrolled in a joint
medical/graduate program engages in conduct that would violate a student
group regulation, general student regulation, or University policy if
the conduct occurred on campus, that conduct may form the basis for a
complaint when the alleged violation impairs, interferes with, or
obstructs the mission, processes, or functions of the student’s medical
college.

5.3 FILING A GRIEVANCE OR COMPLAINT.

5.3.1 To file a grievance/complaint, the grievant/complainant must
submit a written, signed statement to the designated administrator of
the college in which the medical student is enrolled. The statement must
contain the following information:

A.  the specific provision of this document or other policy/regulation
that has allegedly been violated;
B.  the time, place, and nature of the alleged violation;
C.  the person(s) against whom the grievance/complaint is filed;
D.  a concise and plain statement of the sanction or remedy sought; and
E. whether a hearing is requested.

5.3.2 Anonymous complaints will not be accepted. Students may seek
assistance from the Office of the Ombudsman¹ to understand the grievance
process.

5.3.3 Grievances/complaints must be filed no later than mid-term of the
semester following the one in which the alleged violation occurred
(exclusive of the scheduled vacation periods during which students in
the medical colleges are not enrolled for classes). If either party to a
grievance/complaint is absent from the University during that semester,
or if other appropriate reasons exist, an exception to this time limit
may be granted by the designated college administrator. If either party
to the grievance or complaint leaves the University prior to its
resolution, the grievance/complaint may proceed at the discretion of the
chair of the hearing body.

5.3.4 Grievances/complaints must be initiated at the lowest
administrative level feasible. Grievances/complaints brought within a
department that is solely administered by the medical colleges will
normally be heard by the department hearing body. Grievances/complaints
brought within a department that is not solely administered by the
medical colleges will be referred to the medical student’s college
hearing body. Upon the request of either party or on its own initiative,
a department may waive jurisdiction and refer a grievance/complaint to
the college hearing body with the approval of the college dean.

5.4  ADMINISTRATIVE RESOLUTION.

5.4.1 Where possible, a grievant or complainant is encouraged to seek
resolution and redress informally.

5.4.2 If problems arise in the relationship between instructor and
student, both should attempt to resolve them by informal, direct
discussions. If the problems remain unsolved, the unit administrator
and/or the Ombudsperson should be consulted. If a problem is still
unresolved, either individual may submit a grievance or complaint.

5.4.3 Within five (5) class days² after receipt of a
grievance/complaint, the designated college administrator shall meet
with the respondent to discuss the nature of the grievance/complaint. At
that time, the respondent may admit his/her violation of this document
or other policy/regulation and have the grievance/complaint resolved
through administrative action.

5.4.3.1 A respondent who admits his/her violation of this document or
other policy/regulation waives his/her right to a hearing regarding the
underlying facts of that violation. In such a situation, the designated
college administrator shall propose an appropriate redress or sanction
for the violation. At that time, the respondent may choose to proceed to
a hearing on the sole issue of the appropriateness of the
sanction/redress.

5.4.4 Alternatively, the respondent may choose to deny that the alleged
violation has occurred and request a hearing. In such a case, within
five (5) class days, the designated college administrator shall forward
the grievance/complaint to the chairperson of the hearing body.

5.5  JUDICIAL PROCEDURES.

5.5.1 Departments/units and colleges shall establish hearing board
procedures consistent with this document. A copy of these procedures
shall be filed with the medical college’s dean, the Ombudsperson, and
the Dean of the Graduate School. Hearing board procedures shall be
reviewed every five (5) years.

5.5.2 The adjudication of grievances should proceed in a timely manner,
as described below.

5.5.3 Upon receipt of a complaint/grievance, the chair of the hearing
body shall transmit a copy of the complaint/grievance within five (5)
class days to the hearing body members and to the respondent(s).

5.5.3.1 The hearing body shall review the complaint/grievance to
determine whether it has jurisdiction and whether the
complaint/grievance has alleged a violation of this document or other
policy/regulation and may then forward a copy of the complaint/grievance
to the appropriate individual(s) and invite a written response regarding
these issues. After considering all submitted information, the hearing
body may:

5.5.3.1.1 Accept the complaint/grievance, in full or in part, and
proceed to schedule a hearing.

5.5.3.1.2 Reject the complaint/grievance and provide an explanation.

5.5.3.1.3 Invite all parties to meet with the hearing board for an
informal discussion of the issues. Such discussion shall not preclude a
later hearing.

5.5.4 At least ten (10) class days prior to the hearing, each party
shall provide the chair of the hearing body with the names of his/her
witnesses (if any) and advisor (if any).³

5.5.5 At least five (5) class days prior to the hearing, each party
shall be entitled to a written notice of hearing from the hearing body.
This notice of hearing shall state:

5.5.5.1 The name(s) of the parties;

5.5.5.2 The nature of the issues to be heard with sufficient detail to
enable each party to prepare its respective case;

5.5.5.3 The date, time, and place of the hearing;

5.5.5.4 The names of witnesses (if any) and advisor (if any); and

5.5.5.5 The names of the members of the body adjudicating the case.

5.5.6 At least three (3) class days prior to a formal hearing, either
party may submit a request to the chair of the hearing body that a
member of the hearing body be disqualified because of a conflict of
interest. (See Article 5.9.4.2.) If the chair of the hearing body is the
subject of the request, the request should be filed with the designated
college administrator. The chair of the hearing body or designated
college administrator shall rule on the issue of disqualification
promptly and, if a member is disqualified, the name of the new hearing
body member shall be forwarded to the parties immediately.

5.5.7 Any amendments to a complaint/grievance must be filed at least
five (5) class days prior to the hearing on that complaint/grievance.

5.5.8 Either party may request, with cause, a postponement prior to the
scheduled time of a hearing. The chair of the hearing body may grant or
deny such a request.

5.5.9 Each party is expected to appear at the hearing and present
his/her case to the hearing body.

5.5.10 Should the complainant/grievant fail to appear, the hearing body
may either postpone the hearing or dismiss the complaint/grievance.

5.5.11 Should the respondent(s) fail to appear, the hearing body may
either postpone the hearing or, if the hearing body determines that an
acceptable excuse has not been offered, hear the grievance/complaint in
the absence of the respondent(s).

5.5.12 The hearing body may accept written statements from a party to
the hearing in lieu of a personal appearance, but only in unusual
circumstances. A copy of the written statement shall also be sent to the
opposing party. Such written statements must be submitted to the hearing
body and to the opposing party at least one (1) day prior to the
scheduled hearing.

5.5.13 The hearing body shall maintain a collegial atmosphere in
hearings.

5.5.14 Either party may choose to be accompanied by a member of the
faculty, staff, or student body of the University who may serve as an
advisor. The advisor may be present throughout the hearing but has no
voice in the hearing unless permission to participate is granted by the
chair of the hearing body. Permission may be granted to the respondent
to be accompanied by an attorney if criminal charges are pending against
the respondent regarding the subject matter of the complaint/grievance.
If the respondent is charged with a sex offense, the complainant may
also have an attorney present.

5.5.15 During the hearing, each party shall have an opportunity to make
an opening statement, present evidence, question witnesses, ask
questions of the opposing party, and present a closing statement.

5.5.16 The hearing body shall issue a decision and prepare a written
report of its findings and supporting rationale. As part of its
decision, the hearing body shall determine what, if any, redress or
sanction should be implemented. The hearing body shall forward copies of
the report to the parties, the designated college administrator, the
Ombudsperson, and the dean of the medical college involved in the
complaint/grievance. All recipients are expected to respect the
confidentiality of this report. The dean of the medical college shall
take appropriate action to implement any redress or sanction directed by
the hearing body.

5.5.17 Either party to a hearing may request reconsideration of a
decision within thirty (30) days if it is determined by the chair of the
hearing body that new evidence has arisen. “New evidence” is defined as
relevant information or documents previously unavailable to the party,
although the party acted with due diligence to obtain such evidence. An
exception to the thirty (30) day time limit may be granted by the chair
of the hearing body only upon a showing of good cause.

5.6. URGENT CASES.

5.6.1 The following process makes special provisions to adjudicate
urgent complaints/grievances in which it is alleged that the conduct of
a medical student threatens immediate and irreparable harm to a member
of the University community or to patients or clients for whose care one
or more of the medical colleges is responsible.

5.6.2 When student conduct that threatens immediate or irreparable harm
is alleged, the student shall be suspended by the appropriate
dean/designated college administrator. The appropriate dean/designated
college administrator shall convene, within three (3) class days, a
fact-finding hearing. Based on this fact-finding hearing, the
dean/designated college administrator will determine whether there is
sufficient evidence to justify continuation of the suspension. The
student will be notified of the time and place of the fact-finding
hearing and shall have the right to be present, to be informed of the
particulars of the allegation, and to speak on his or her own behalf.

5.6.3 When the fact-finder finds sufficient evidence that the student
has engaged in conduct of a sort that, if continued, threatens immediate
or irreparable harm and no compelling evidence has been provided by the
student that the conduct will be or has already been discontinued, the
dean/designated college administrator shall suspend the student
immediately (or continue the suspension if one is already in place) and
notify the college hearing body of the suspension.

5.6.4 Upon receiving notification that a student has been suspended
following a fact-finding hearing, the normal procedures for conducting a
college hearing will be instituted immediately. The student will remain
suspended pending a decision by the college hearing body.

5.6.5 If the fact-finder does not find sufficient evidence to justify a
suspension, the suspension will be lifted. The dean/designated college
administrator will forward its conclusions in writing to the college
hearing body and normal procedures for conducting a college hearing will
be instituted immediately.

5.7. SANCTIONS.

5.7.1   COMPLAINTS: If it finds a violation, the hearing body may impose
one of the following sanctions:

5.7.1.1  WARNING: An official written statement advising the medical
student that additional violations will result in more severe sanctions.

5.7.1.2  PROBATION: A period of time specified for observing and
evaluating a medical student’s conduct, with or without special
conditions, including a written reprimand, with an indication that
further violations will result in more severe disciplinary action,
including suspension or dismissal from the college. Probation will be
imposed for a specific period of time and, provided no further
violations have occurred, the medical student shall automatically be
removed from probation when that period expires. Probation may be
accompanied by a requirement that restitution be made for University
property damages or other losses resulting from the violation, or such
other requirements or special conditions as may be appropriate under the
circumstances.

5.7.1.3  SUSPENSION: A suspension from the student’s medical college may
be for a specified period of time, in which case the medical student is
eligible to apply for readmission at the end of that period of time, or
it may be a conditional suspension, in which case the medical student
must demonstrate that he/she has fulfilled stated conditions prior to
applying for readmission. Suspensions must be approved by the
dean/designated college administrator of the relevant medical college.
If the dean/designated college administrator does not approve the
suspension, the dean/designated college administrator may direct that
another sanction be imposed. The dean/designated college administrator
will normally consult with the hearing body before imposing another
sanction.

5.7.1.4  DISMISSAL: Dismissal from the student’s medical college.
Dismissals must be approved by the dean of the relevant medical college
and the Provost. If the dismissal is not approved, the dean and Provost
may direct that another sanction be imposed. The dean and Provost will
normally consult with the hearing body before imposing another sanction.

5.7.1.5  OTHER: Other disciplinary action deemed appropriate to a
specific case.

5.8. APPEALS.

5.8.1 The decision of the hearing body may be appealed by either party
to the next level hearing body. If the original hearing was by the
department hearing body, the appeal shall be made to the college hearing
body. If the original hearing was by the college hearing body, the
appeal shall be made to the University Graduate–Professional Judiciary
(“UGPJ”).⁴

5.8.1.2  GRIEVANCES. The college hearing body or UGPJ shall hear appeals
of decisions arising from academic grievances. Such appeals will be
confined to allegations regarding procedural violations. When reviewing
procedural matters, the appellate body will normally restrict its
determination to issues which challenge the adequacy of the notice of
the hearing provided the respondent by the hearing body and/or the
adequacy of the hearing provided the parties by the hearing body.
Evidence presented to the hearing body or otherwise pertaining to the
substance of the grievance will not be reheard.

5.8.1.3  COMPLAINTS. The college hearing body or UGPJ shall hear appeals
of decisions arising from complaints. Medical students may appeal
decisions arising from complaints on either substantive or procedural
grounds. When reviewing substantive matters, the appellate body will
normally restrict itself to considering whether there were sufficient
grounds for the decision made by the lower hearing body and/or whether
the sanction imposed was appropriate to the nature and seriousness of
the violation. Appeals from decisions arising from a complaint may
allege that the decision of the hearing body was substantively unfair
even if no procedural violations are alleged to have occurred, but the
appellate body will not rehear the complaint or the evidence presented
to the hearing body.

5.8.2 Appeals must be written and signed by the party filing the appeal
and must specify the basis for appeal in sufficient detail to justify
further proceedings. Appeals to the college hearing body must be filed
with the designated college administrator. Appeals to the UGPJ must be
filed with the Dean of the Graduate School.

5.8.3 Appeals must specify the redress that is sought.

5.8.4 New evidence may only be submitted to the appellate body if it is
relevant to the appeal and was previously unavailable to the party
submitting it, although the party acted with due diligence to obtain
such evidence.

5.8.5 Appeals must be filed within fourteen (14) class days following
the date of the hearing body’s decision. Except in urgent cases, any
redress or sanctions imposed by the hearing body will be held in
abeyance while the appeal is pending.

5.8.6 The appellate body shall review the appeal and forward a copy of
the appeal to the other party and invite a written response. After
considering the appeal and response, the appellate body may:

5.8.6.1 Decide that sufficient reasons for an appeal do not exist and
that the decision of the hearing body shall stand;

5.8.6.2 Direct the hearing body to rehear the case or to reconsider or
clarify its decision;

5.8.6.3 Decide that sufficient reasons exist for an appeal and schedule
an appeal hearing in a timely manner.

5.8.7 Following an appeal hearing, the appellate body may affirm,
reverse, or modify the decision of the hearing body. The appellate body
may also direct the hearing body to rehear the original
complaint/grievance.

5.9. JUDICIAL STRUCTURE.

5.9.1  DEPARTMENT HEARING BODIES.

5.9.1.1 Each department that is solely administered by the medical
colleges may, in accordance with its bylaws and procedures, establish
procedures to deal with complaints/grievances that arise at the
department level. Complaints/grievances may be resolved informally or,
at the request of either party, formally through a department hearing
body. No student or faculty member involved in the complaint/grievance
may serve on the hearing board.

5.9.2  COLLEGE HEARING BODIES.

5.9.2.1 Each medical college shall, in accordance with its bylaws and
procedures, establish a hearing body for grievances/complaints involving
medical students that arise at the college level or that cannot be
resolved at the department level. Such hearing bodies shall have equal
numbers of faculty and medical students selected by their respective
groups in accordance with college bylaws. If a faculty member or medical
student is involved in the complaint/grievance, neither the faculty
member nor the medical student may serve on the hearing body for that
complaint/grievance.

5.9.3 UNIVERSITY GRADUATE-PROFESSIONAL JUDICIARY (“UGPJ”)

5.9.3.1 A body shall be established composed of the Dean of the Graduate
School or designee who shall serve as chairperson; five (5) faculty
members of the University Graduate Council, three (3) of whom shall be
the faculty representatives on the University Graduate Council; and five
(5) students chosen by the all-University graduate student governing
body, three (3) of whom shall be medical students, one from each medical
college. If a faculty member or medical student who sits on the UGPJ is
involved in the complaint/grievance, neither the faculty member nor the
medical student shall serve on the UGPJ for that complaint/grievance.
Each year the College Advisory Council of each of the medical colleges
shall select an alternate faculty member who shall sit on the UGPJ in
the event the faculty member representing that college on the UGPJ is
unable to serve on a complaint/grievance. A medical student
representative to the UGPJ who is unable to serve on a
complaint/grievance shall be replaced for that complaint/grievance by
another student from the same medical college who is chosen by the
all-University graduate student governing body.

5.9.3.2 The UGPJ shall have available to it the full range of decisions
provided to hearing bodies through this document. In addition, the UGPJ
may make whatever recommendations it may consider appropriate to
specific cases. When the UGPJ finds that a violation of rights has
occurred and that redress is possible, the UGPJ shall direct the
responsible administrator to provide redress. The administrator, in
consultation with the UGPJ, shall implement an appropriate remedy.

5.9.4 GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.

5.9.4.1 Department and college hearing body members and students serving
on the UGPJ shall take office in the fall of the year and shall serve
one year. The one-year term shall not preclude reappointment the
following year. Faculty serving on the UGPJ shall have a term that
coincides with their term on the University Graduate Council.

5.9.4.2 Any member of a hearing body who has a conflict of interest in a
complaint/grievance shall be disqualified from sitting on the hearing
body for that specific complaint/grievance. A “conflict of interest” is
defined as any academic, financial, scholarly, or social relationship
that would, in the judgment of the hearing body chair, impair the
ability of a member to make a fair and impartial judgment. In the event
that a member of a hearing body is disqualified, an alternate from the
appropriate student or faculty group will be selected according to the
established procedures for selecting members of that hearing body.

___________________
1 The Ombudsperson is a senior faculty member who assists members of the
MSU community in resolving complaints or concerns informally,
impartially, and independently.

2 A “class day” is defined as a day on which classes are held, including
a day during final examination week.

3 A witness will normally be a member of the University community.
However, since medical students spend significant blocks of
instructional time in hospitals, clinics, and practitioners’ offices,
staff or patients in those settings may, from time to time, be requested
to serve as witnesses because they have evidence important to the
resolution of the complaint/grievance. Wherever possible, a written
statement shall be sought in lieu of personal appearances and testimony
by those who are not members of the University community.

4 The UGPJ is the final hearing body within the judicial structure
related to medical student academic rights and responsibilities.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
