Spartan Life Student Handbook - ARTICLE 3: Student Records

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
    -   Foreword
    -   Preface
    -   ARTICLE 1: Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   ARTICLE 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Medical
        Students
    -   ARTICLE 3: Student Records
    -   ARTICLE 4: Medical Student Support
    -   ARTICLE 5: Adjudication of Cases
    -   ARTICLE 6: Academic Governance
    -   ARTICLE 7: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)

> ARTICLE 3: Student Records

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 3: STUDENT RECORDS


3.1 Record practices within the medical colleges shall be based on
respect for the privacy of individual medical students, as well as on
current federal and state laws.

3.2 All policies and practices governing access, maintenance, and
release of medical student records shall conform to the University’s
policies governing the release of student records. Changes to record
policies shall be made known to medical students.

3.2.1 No record shall be made, duplicated, or retained unless it is
needed for University operations.

3.2.2 The University shall not make, duplicate, or retain records of a
medical student’s religious or political beliefs without the medical
student’s knowledge and consent.

3.2.3 Each medical student shall have the right to inspect his or her
own educational records, except confidential letters of recommendation,
including the official transcript. Each medical student shall also have
the right to inspect reports and evaluations of his or her academic
performance and conduct.

3.2.4 All policies and practices dealing with the acquisition and
dissemination of information in student records shall be formulated with
due regard for the medical student’s rights of privacy and access.

3.2.5 Units shall train persons handling confidential records regarding
appropriate methods of keeping such records.

3.2.6 Except as permitted by law, the University shall not provide
access to a medical student’s disciplinary record without the written
permission of the student.

3.2.7 Medical college policies governing the maintenance and the release
of records shall be subject to judicial review as provided in Article 5.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
