Spartan Life Student Handbook - ARTICLE 1: Medical Student Rights and
Responsibilities

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
    -   Foreword
    -   Preface
    -   ARTICLE 1: Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   ARTICLE 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Medical
        Students
    -   ARTICLE 3: Student Records
    -   ARTICLE 4: Medical Student Support
    -   ARTICLE 5: Adjudication of Cases
    -   ARTICLE 6: Academic Governance
    -   ARTICLE 7: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)

> ARTICLE 1: Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 1: MEDICAL STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES


1.1 Michigan State University is a community of scholars. The basic
purposes of the University are the advancement, dissemination, and
application of knowledge. While engaged in these activities, the
University seeks to provide an environment conducive to instruction,
research, and service.

1.2 Each right of an individual places a reciprocal responsibility upon
others: the responsibility to permit the individual to exercise the
right. The medical student, as a member of the academic community, has
both rights and responsibilities. Within that community, the medical
student’s most essential right is the right to learn. The University
provides for the medical student those privileges, opportunities, and
protections which best promote the learning process in all its aspects.
The medical student has responsibilities to other members of the
academic community and to patients, clients, and the general public.

1.3 Regulations governing the activities and conduct of student groups
and individual medical students do not attempt to specify all prohibited
and permitted conduct. Rather, they are intended to govern conduct that
seriously interferes with the basic purposes and processes of the
community or with the rights of members of the community.

1.4 The medical student is not only a member of the academic community,
but also a citizen of the larger society who retains those rights,
protections, and guarantees of fair treatment held by all citizens.

1.5 GUIDELINES REGARDING MEDICAL STUDENT REGULATIONS.

1.5.1 The medical colleges shall not enact student regulations unless
there is a demonstrable need for them which is reasonably related to the
basic purposes and necessities of the University.

1.5.2 The medical colleges shall provide opportunities for medical
students to participate in formulating and revising regulations
governing medical student conduct.

1.5.3 All regulations governing medical student rights and
responsibilities shall be made available to medical students in print or
in electronic form. (See medical college student handbooks.)

1.5.4 Every regulation shall be as brief, clear, and specific as
possible.

1.5.5 Wherever rights conflict, regulations shall, to the maximum extent
feasible, permit reasonable scope for each conflicting right by defining
the circumstances of time, place, and means appropriate to its exercise.

1.5.6 Regulations shall respect the free expression of ideas and shall
encourage the competition of ideas from diverse perspectives.

1.5.7 Penalties shall be commensurate with the seriousness of the
offense. Repeated violations may justify increasingly severe penalties.

1.5.8 There shall be clearly defined channels and procedures for the
appeal and/or review of:

a. The finding of a violation of a regulation.

b. The reasonableness, under the circumstances, of the penalty imposed
for a violation.

c. A regulation or administrative decision which is alleged to be
inconsistent with guidelines in this document.

d. Alleged violations of the complaint/grievance procedures set forth in
Article V of this document.

1.5.9 Every regulation shall specify to whom it applies and whether
responsibility for compliance lies with medical students.

1.6 A handbook of the University’s current regulations relating to
student rights and responsibilities shall be made available to every
member of the academic community.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
