Spartan Life Student Handbook - ARTICLE 4: Medical Student Support

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
    -   Foreword
    -   Preface
    -   ARTICLE 1: Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   ARTICLE 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Medical
        Students
    -   ARTICLE 3: Student Records
    -   ARTICLE 4: Medical Student Support
    -   ARTICLE 5: Adjudication of Cases
    -   ARTICLE 6: Academic Governance
    -   ARTICLE 7: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)

> ARTICLE 4: Medical Student Support

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 4: MEDICAL STUDENT SUPPORT


4.1  CLASSES OF SUPPORT.

4.1.1 Medical students receiving support from the University fall
primarily into three classes:

a. graduate assistants;
b. University employees; and
c. fellowship, scholarship, and/or grant recipients.

4.2  GRADUATE ASSISTANTS.

4.2.1 This Article (Article 4) deals only with the employment of
graduate assistants not represented by the Graduate Employees Union
(“GEU”). Accordingly, for the purposes of this document, the term
“graduate assistant” does not include members of the GEU. Information
related to the employment of graduate teaching assistants included in
the GEU bargaining unit is included in the collective bargaining
agreement between the University and the GEU.

4.2.2 Medical students who are graduate assistants are appointed in
accordance with University policies governing graduate assistantships.
Graduate assistant duties may include, but are not limited to: student
advising, writing supervision, reading of papers and examinations, and
research. The responsibilities delegated to a graduate assistant must be
performed under the supervision of a faculty member or administrator.

4.2.3 Each unit appointing medical students as graduate assistants shall
develop and publish policies regarding:

a. criteria for selecting new graduate assistants;
b. criteria for renewing and/or continuing graduate assistantships;
c. stipends;
d. stipend advancement and promotion;
e. tax status of stipends (according to IRS policy);
f. procedures for evaluating performance;
g. length of term of appointment, including continuance and renewal of
graduate assistantships;
h. work load, duties, and vacation schedules; and
i. grievance procedures.

4.2.4 By April 15th of each calendar year, units shall notify each
graduate assistant in writing of one (or more) of the following: (a)
that the assistantship will be renewed for the following academic year
or a portion thereof; (b) that the assistantship will be renewed
provided the assistant is able to meet certain specified conditions; (c)
that the assistantship will be renewed if the unit is able to meet
certain specified conditions and by which date the student will be
notified if the assistantship will be renewed; and (d) that the
assistantship will not be renewed for the following academic year, along
with the reasons for that decision.

4.2.5 The Office of the Provost shall establish a campus-wide policy for
graduate assistant stipends, taking into account (a) the amount of
stipend adequate in relation to the current cost of living, (b) the need
to be competitive with other universities, and (c) the availability of
resources for graduate assistant stipends. The Office of the Provost
consults with the Dean of the Graduate School and the University
Graduate Council on graduate assistant stipend levels.

4.2.6 Graduate assistants are entitled to all benefits normally accorded
to full-time graduate students, except where otherwise specified by
policy.

4.2.7 All graduate assistants are entitled to such clerical-secretarial
help and supplies as are commensurate with their assigned
responsibilities and the resources of the unit.

4.2.8 Medical students who are graduate assistants should receive the
same professional respect accorded to faculty, within the constraints of
their training, experience, and responsibilities.

4.3  UNIVERSITY-EMPLOYED MEDICAL STUDENTS.

4.3.1 The University’s student employment office shall publish annually
minimum and maximum salaries and hourly wages for University-employed
medical students. This office approves unit requests for all payments
above the established maximums.

4.3.2 The University shall not deny a regular employee’s fringe benefits
or unilaterally make adjustments to working hours solely because the
employee is also registered as a medical student.

4.3.3 University employees who are pursuing medical study continue to be
bound by collective bargaining agreements and other applicable
University personnel policies and agreements.

4.3.4 Employment-related grievances of medical students employed in
non-academic positions should be filed with the employing units under
their respective procedures.

4.4.  FELLOWSHIP, SCHOLARSHIP AND GRANT RECIPIENTS.

4.4.1 A medical student supported by a fellowship and/or grant shall be
provided with information about (a) the responsibilities to be met and
performance required for retention of support, (b) the privileges and
status associated with support, and (c) any relevant grievance
procedures.

4.5 UNIVERSITY POLICIES RELATING TO MEDICAL STUDENT SUPPORT RECIPIENTS.

4.5.1 Employment practices within the medical colleges shall conform to
the University’s Anti-Discrimination Policy and all other relevant
University policies.

4.5.2 The University may demote, suspend, terminate, or otherwise
discipline medical students receiving support through the University for
cause and for failure to meet their employment responsibilities. A
medical student’s dismissal from an academic program may also terminate
the medical student’s assistantship or other support. Medical students
who believe they have a grievance under this Article may utilize the
procedures set forth in Article 5.

4.5.2.1 In cases where the medical student contends that action of the
University may cause irreparable harm, the medical student may ask the
appropriate judiciary for an expedited hearing.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
