Spartan Life Student Handbook - ARTICLE 2: Academic Rights and
Responsibilities for Medical Students

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
    -   Foreword
    -   Preface
    -   ARTICLE 1: Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   ARTICLE 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Medical
        Students
    -   ARTICLE 3: Student Records
    -   ARTICLE 4: Medical Student Support
    -   ARTICLE 5: Adjudication of Cases
    -   ARTICLE 6: Academic Governance
    -   ARTICLE 7: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)

> ARTICLE 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Medical Students

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 2: ACADEMIC RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES FOR MEDICAL STUDENTS


2.1 PREAMBLE.

2.1.1 The establishment and maintenance of the proper relationship
between instructor and student are fundamental to the University’s
function and require both instructor and student to recognize the rights
and responsibilities that derive from that relationship. The
relationship between instructor and student should be founded on mutual
respect and understanding together with shared dedication to the
educational process.

2.2. ROLE OF THE FACULTY IN THE INSTRUCTIONAL PROCESS.

2.2.1 No provision for the rights of medical students can be valid which
suspends the rights of the faculty. The medical student’s right to
competent instruction must be reconciled with the rights of the faculty,
consistent with the principle that the competency of a professional can
be rightly judged only by professionals. It is, therefore, acknowledged
and mandated that competence of instruction shall be judged by the
faculty.

2.2.2 Colleges, departments, and units shall provide clearly defined
channels for the receipt and consideration of medical student complaints
concerning instruction. In no instance shall a dispute concerning the
competence of instruction form the basis for a grievance under this
document.

2.2.3 Faculty shall have authority and responsibility for academic
policy and practices in areas such as degree eligibility and
requirements, course content and grading, classroom procedure, and
standards of professional behavior in accordance with the _Bylaws for
Academic Governance_, _The Code of Teaching Responsibility_, and other
documents on faculty rights and responsibilities.

2.2.3.1 It shall be the responsibility of the faculty of the Colleges of
Human Medicine, Osteopathic Medicine, and Veterinary Medicine to
establish and disseminate academic and professional requirements and the
methods for evaluating student performance in their college.

2.2.3.2 Determination of a medical student’s overall progress,
performance, and standing in a given medical program shall be the
prerogative of a student performance committee, established in
accordance with college bylaws and procedures.

2.2.4 No hearing board established under this document shall direct a
change in the evaluation of a medical student which represents a course
instructor’s or instructional committee’s good faith judgment about the
medical student’s academic performance. In the event that an evaluation
is determined to be based on factors other than good faith judgment
about the medical student’s academic performance (e.g., race, sex,
personal animus), the dean of the appropriate college shall direct that
the student’s performance be reassessed and that a good faith evaluation
be conducted.

2.3 MEDICAL STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.

2.3.1 In all areas of medical education, the medical colleges shall
comply with the University’s _Anti-Discrimination Policy_ and all other
University policies.

2.3.2 The medical student has a right to accurate, timely, and clearly
written information concerning general academic requirements for
establishing and maintaining an acceptable academic standing, the
medical student’s academic relationship with the University, and any
special academic conditions which may apply to the medical student.
Requirements for the student’s academic program and written academic
regulations, including codes of professional behavior, shall be made
known to the medical student by the administering college at the time of
the medical student’s enrollment. Medical students are responsible for
informing themselves of University, college, department, and unit
requirements stated in college publications and in the University
catalog. In planning to meet such requirements, students are responsible
for consulting with their academic advisers and appropriate officers of
their college.

2.3.3 The medical student, regardless of degree program, has a right to
the best advice the college can provide concerning program planning,
research, professional expectations, selection of courses and
professors, and general degree requirements.

2.3.4 The colleges shall maintain records for their medical students,
specifying and/or containing degree requirements, course waivers and
substitutions, program changes, and other stipulations directly
affecting their degree programs. Medical students shall be provided
access to and a copy of these records upon request.

2.3.5 Subject to Article 2.2, the medical student shall be free to take
reasoned exception to information and views offered in instructional
contexts and to reserve judgment about matters of opinion, without
penalty or reprisal.

2.3.6 Medical students and faculty share responsibility for maintaining
classroom decorum and a collegial atmosphere which promotes teaching and
learning.

2.3.7 Each medical student shares with the faculty responsibility for
maintaining the integrity of scholarship, grades, patient care, and
professional standards.

2.3.8 The medical student is responsible for learning the content of a
course of study according to standards of performance established by the
faculty and for adhering to standards of professional behavior
established by his/her college.

2.3.9 The medical student has a right to academic evaluations which
represent good faith judgments of academic performance by course
instructors. Course grades shall represent the instructor’s or
instructors’ professional evaluation of the medical student’s academic
performance, including compliance with professional standards. The
medical student shall have the right to know all course requirements and
grading criteria at the beginning of the course. (See also _The Code of
Teaching Responsibility_.)

2.3.10 Faculty, academic staff, and support staff must respect the
privacy of information concerning the medical student’s academic
performance and the medical student’s values, beliefs, organizational
affiliations, and health. (See also Article 3.)

2.3.11 Medical students and faculty members share responsibility for
maintaining professional relationships based on mutual trust and
civility.

2.3.12 Faculty, academic staff, and support staff may not exploit
medical students. Medical students shall receive recognition for
scholarly assistance to faculty.

2.3.13 The medical student has the right to refuse to participate in any
research being conducted by faculty without penalty or reprisal.

2.3.14 The medical student has a right to have his/her
grievance/complaint adjudicated in accordance with the procedures
established in this document.

2.3.15 The medical student subject to disciplinary action for alleged
unprofessional behavior has a right to an explanation from the
appropriate college faculty of the allegation, including how the
judgment of unprofessional behavior was made, and the right to appeal.

2.4  ACADEMIC PROGRAMMING.

2.4.1  COLLEGE LEVEL.

2.4.1.1  CODE OF PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS. Each medical college shall
provide to medical students, at the time of their first enrollment in
the college or in a course, any specific codes of professional behavior
and other academic standards covering the conduct expected of them while
enrolled in the college or in that course.

2.4.1.2  EVALUATION. Each medical college shall evaluate medical
students’ academic progress, performance, and professional potential.
Evaluation of medical students shall be made only by persons who are
qualified to make those evaluations. Written descriptions of methods and
bases of evaluations shall be provided to medical students and the
faculty. Copies of written evaluations shall be provided to the medical
student and placed in the medical student’s file.

2.4.1.2.1 When a medical student’s progress or performance is
unsatisfactory, the medical college shall so notify the student in
writing in a timely manner and a copy of that notice shall be placed in
the student’s file.

2.4.1.3 Each medical college shall make reasonable efforts to identify
those students who have problems with academic performance, including
compliance with professional standards, and when appropriate, to provide
opportunities for remediation and/or improvement.

2.4.1.4  REMOVAL. Each medical college shall protect patients, clients,
and the general public from unprofessional conduct and from performance
which falls below minimally acceptable professional standards of care on
the part of its students. The medical colleges must remove from patient
or client contact any student who has been found to have engaged in
unprofessional conduct which presents a significant possibility of harm
to patients, to clients, or to the general public.

2.4.1.5  DISMISSALS AND WITHDRAWALS. Each medical college shall
establish criteria for the dismissal or withdrawal of medical students
enrolled in its medical programs. Such criteria shall be published and
made available to medical students at the time they begin their medical
programs. Should a decision to dismiss a medical student be made by the
dean or student performance committee in a medical college, the affected
medical student shall be so notified in writing in a timely manner, and
the medical student may request a review for reinstatement. All
information regarding the decision to dismiss is confidential and shall
only be shared in accordance with the University’s policies governing
the release of student records.

2.4.1.5.1 Each medical college shall deal expeditiously with all
academic dismissals, disciplinary dismissals, suspensions, appeals, and
grievances.

2.4.2  JOINT MEDICAL/GRADUATE PROGRAM STUDENTS.

2.4.2.1 Joint medical/graduate program students are responsible at the
time they are enrolled in each program to review applicable University,
college, department, and unit requirements.

2.4.2.2 This document governs rights and responsibilities related to the
medical program of a joint medical/graduate program student. The
Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities document (“GSRR”) governs
rights and responsibilities related to the graduate program of a joint
medical/graduate program student.

2.4.2.3 Complaints/grievances arising from the application of this
document or of the GSRR to a student jointly enrolled in
graduate/medical programs shall be referred to the appropriate hearing
board. The Dean of the Graduate School will determine the hearing board
to which the case will be referred.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
