Spartan Life Student Handbook - Foreword

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
    -   Foreword
    -   Preface
    -   ARTICLE 1: Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   ARTICLE 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Medical
        Students
    -   ARTICLE 3: Student Records
    -   ARTICLE 4: Medical Student Support
    -   ARTICLE 5: Adjudication of Cases
    -   ARTICLE 6: Academic Governance
    -   ARTICLE 7: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)

> Foreword

[Click here to print this page]



FOREWORD


The foreword is not part of the document that follows. It supplies,
however, a necessary perspective for interpreting the document.

Medical student rights and responsibilities at Michigan State University
are part of the social and historical background of the University.
When, more than a century ago, the people of Michigan established this
institution on the land-grant principle, they framed a new conception of
the role of the university in American life. A land-grant university is
a trusteeship of intellect in the service of society. It gathers
society’s creative and intellectual powers and uses them to advance the
common good and to solve fundamental problems.

This document is significant not merely because it establishes that
medical students have certain rights and responsibilities, but
particularly because it affirms that they are parties to the social
trust shared by all in the University community who are charged with
preserving and advancing the genius of scholarship and the conditions of
inquiry which society has entrusted to our care.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
