Spartan Life Student Handbook - Preface

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
    -   Foreword
    -   Preface
    -   ARTICLE 1: Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   ARTICLE 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Medical
        Students
    -   ARTICLE 3: Student Records
    -   ARTICLE 4: Medical Student Support
    -   ARTICLE 5: Adjudication of Cases
    -   ARTICLE 6: Academic Governance
    -   ARTICLE 7: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)

> Preface

[Click here to print this page]



PREFACE


The Colleges of Human Medicine, Osteopathic Medicine, and Veterinary
Medicine at Michigan State University share with the rest of the
University the commitment to free inquiry and pursuit of knowledge that
mark the academic institution. Students enrolled in the professional
curricula of these three colleges are collectively referred to in this
document as “medical students”. This document and the related _Michigan
State University Student Rights and Responsibilities_ and _Graduate
Student Rights and Responsibilities_ documents contain guidelines to the
rights and responsibilities of medical students in matters of conduct,
academic pursuits, keeping of records, and employment. This document
describes structures and procedures for interpreting and amending the
guidelines, for formulating regulations governing medical student
conduct, for adjudicating medical student disciplinary cases, and for
channeling medical student complaints, grievances, or concerns to
faculty, staff, and administrators for appropriate action.

The Colleges of Human Medicine, Osteopathic Medicine, and Veterinary
Medicine educate students for careers in the medical professions and
evaluate students on their professional behavior as well as on other
elements of their academic performance. This dual focus has been
incorporated into this document. When disputes or complaints arise
regarding medical student rights and responsibilities, the academic
tradition of the University and the professional traditions of the
medical professions generally allow for the differences to be settled
quickly and informally. This document is intended, in part, to address
those instances when a formal mechanism for adjudicating differences
must be instituted.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
