Spartan Life Student Handbook - International Students

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
        -   Diversity and Multicultural Programs
        -   Community Groups
            -   Adult Students
            -   International Students
            -   Persons With Disabilities
            -   Lesbian, Bisexual, Gay, and Transgender Resource Center
            -   The Family Resource Center (FRC)
            -   Reflection Room
            -   Veterans
            -   The Women's Council
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Services for Community Groups

> Community Groups

> International Students

[Click here to print this page]



INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS


INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS (and their families) receive assistance through
the Office for International Students and Scholars (OISS), 103
International Center, (517) 353-1720, _www.oiss.msu.edu_. Services
include: (1) Advising on U.S. immigration regulations, (2) Conducting
orientation programs and other special programming that help
international students and scholars integrate into and adjust to the
academic, cultural and social life of MSU, (3) Serving as a liaison with
U.S. government agencies, foreign embassies, sponsors and educational
foundations, (4) Contributing to the internationalization of MSU by
providing opportunities for growth through cross-cultural interactions.
The Community Volunteers for International Programs (CVIP) also provides
support services to students, scholars and their families. OISS hosts a
series of programs throughout the year with their signature program
being the weekly Coffee Hour (Friday, 4:00-6:00 p.m. Mosaic Gallery, 2nd
Floor of the MSU Union).

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
