Spartan Life Student Handbook - Persons With Disabilities

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
        -   Diversity and Multicultural Programs
        -   Community Groups
            -   Adult Students
            -   International Students
            -   Persons With Disabilities
            -   Lesbian, Bisexual, Gay, and Transgender Resource Center
            -   The Family Resource Center (FRC)
            -   Reflection Room
            -   Veterans
            -   The Women's Council
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Services for Community Groups

> Community Groups

> Persons With Disabilities

[Click here to print this page]



PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES


PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES may receive assistance from the Resource
Center for Persons with Disabilities (RCPD). MSU values and promotes
participation by people with disabilities in all aspects of campus life.
The RCPD upholds a mission to lead MSU in maximizing ability and
opportunity for full participation by persons with disabilities. The
RCPD is available to faculty, staff and students to foster understanding
of the opportunities and responsibilities under disability-related
legislation.

Registration with the RCPD is essential for students and employees with
disabilities in order to facilitate timely and effective assistance.
Staff at the RCPD are ready with information, resources, and guidance
for the campus community in order to facilitate an effective campus
experience. Contact: _www.rcpd.msu.edu_, 120 Bessey Hall, (517)
884-RCPD.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
