Spartan Life Student Handbook - The Student Conduct System

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
    -   The Governance System
    -   The Student Conduct System
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Rights and Responsibilities

> The Student Conduct System

[Click here to print this page]



THE STUDENT CONDUCT SYSTEM


Michigan State University has a number of bodies, including
administrators and hearing boards, which serve the interests of
undergraduate and graduate students by contributing to the protection of
an environment for learning. Although specific procedures vary from
one hearing body to another, all operate in a manner designed to assure
due process.

This overview focuses on the student conduct system established through
the report on _Michigan State University Student Rights and
Responsibilities_. The _Michigan State University Student Rights and
Responsibilities_ (formerly known as the _A_cademic _Freedom for
Students at Michigan State University_) was adopted in 1967; was amended
in 1971, 1977, 1983; and was completely revised in 1984, 2010 and 2014.

WHAT DOES THE STUDENT CONDUCT SYSTEM DO?

In addition to hearing alleged violations of regulations governing
student conduct, the MSU student conduct system also protects student
rights against infringement by other students, by faculty or
administrators, by groups, or by the University itself. For example,
the system provides for consideration of challenges to regulations or
administrative decisions alleged to be inconsistent with fundamental
student rights outlined in the _Michigan State University Student Rights
and Responsibilities_. In addition, there is a provision for considering
allegations that legislative bodies or officers have acted
inconsistently with their respective constitutions. It is through
performance of these functions, as well as through consideration of
alleged violations of regulations, that the conduct system seeks to
maintain the delicate balance between maximum freedom and necessary
order so fundamental to the protection of an environment for learning.

RELATIONSHIP OF THE CONDUCT SYSTEM TO CAMPUS GOVERNANCE

Legislation and adjudication are two separate functions of campus
governance, although interdependent for their validity and
effectiveness. Each needs the other for support and criticism.
The conduct system is structured on the principle that legislative
authority requires judicial responsibility. Accordingly, there is
provision for a hearing body to parallel each legislative body,
depending upon it for provision of members and having corresponding
jurisdiction. All-student hearing bodies are established in general
through the _MSU Student Rights and Responsibilities_, but may
be defined more specifically in the constitution of the student
governing bodies whose jurisdictions they share.

OTHER HEARING BODIES

Several hearing bodies within the University have special areas of
jurisdiction and may or may not have a direct link with the
aforementioned systems.

A. GRADUATE JUDICIAL STRUCTURE. A completely separate judicial structure
is provided for adjudicating cases brought by and against graduate
students in the areas of: 1) academic rights and responsibilities; 2)
professional rights and duties of graduate assistants; 3) professional
rights and duties of other graduate students. Judiciaries are provided
for at the departmental, college and University levels. Each judiciary
is composed of an equal number of faculty and student members with a
faculty member serving as chairperson. (Consult _Graduate Student Rights
and Responsibilities_, the Council of Graduate Students, or the Graduate
School.)

B. EMPLOYMENT HEARING OR GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES include those for
students, the faculty, the administrative-professional personnel, the
unionized clerical-technical employees, and the unionized hourly
employees. (Students consult the _Student Employment Policy Manual_ or
the Student Employment Office.)

C. MEDICAL STUDENT JUDICIAL STRUCTURE. A judicial structure is provided
for adjudicating cases brought by and against medical students in the
areas of: 1) academic rights and responsibilities; 2) professional
behavior of medical students; and 3) professional rights and
responsibilities of graduate assistants. Judiciaries are provided for at
the departmental, college, and university levels. Each judiciary is
composed of equal numbers of faculty and student members. In addition,
medical students alleged to have violated General Student Regulations,
student group regulations, living group regulations, or all-University
policies which apply to all students, may be referred to the appropriate
judiciary as outlined in _Michigan State University Student Rights and
Responsibilities_. (Consult _Medical Student Rights and
Responsibilities_ or contact the Dean’s office of the appropriate
medical college or the Graduate School.)

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
