Spartan Life Student Handbook - Types of Rules and Regulations

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Types of Rules and Regulations

[Click here to print this page]



TYPES OF RULES AND REGULATIONS


The University has established several types of rules which govern the
conduct of students and organized student groups, and which are
described below.

UNIVERSITY ORDINANCES:

a. Apply to all individuals – students, employees, visitors on campus.
b. Final approval by the Board of Trustees.
c. Enforced by the Department of Police and Public Safety with the
support of students, faculty, and administrative personnel.
d. Adjudicated through criminal court proceedings in the same manner as
city ordinances or state laws.

(Although this book contains only selected ordinances, everyone is
expected to comply with all University ordinances, which are available
for reference at the Information Desk, Main Library, or at
_http://trustees.msu.edu/ordinances/_)

GENERAL STUDENT REGULATIONS:

a. Apply to the conduct of all registered students and organizations.
b. Final approval by the University president.
c. Enforced by all students, faculty, and administrative personnel, with
support of the Department of Police and Public Safety.
d. Adjudicated through University procedures.

STUDENT GROUP REGULATIONS:

a. Apply to those students specified in the regulation.
b. Final approval by the Vice President for Student Affairs and
Services.
c. Enforced by students, faculty, and administrative personnel.
d. Adjudicated through University procedures.

ADMINISTRATIVE RULINGS:

a. Apply to those specified in the ruling.
b. Adopted by various offices of the University for implementing
delegated administrative responsibility, usually after consultation with
student-faculty advisory committees.
c. Enforced by administrative personnel in the respective offices,
supported by students and faculty.
d. Adjudicated through administrative action.

ALL-UNIVERSITY POLICIES:

a. Apply to those specified in the policy.
b. Final approval by the Board of Trustees for carrying out major
University responsibilities.
c. Enforced by students, faculty, and administrative personnel.
d. Adjudicated through administrative action, University procedures, or
as provided in the policy.

In general, all-University policies and administrative rulings apply
only to those individuals registered as students. Some, however, also
apply to University employees. Where such is the case, mention is made
of the fact immediately before the text of the policy or ruling.

ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:

Students are, of course, expected to live in accordance with local,
state, and national laws. The enforcement of such laws is the
responsibility of the legal and judicial authorities duly established
for that purpose. Conduct alleged to have violated both law and
University regulations may be handled concurrently through the courts
and University disciplinary proceedings. The complainant may choose
whether to file criminal charges and/or an internal disciplinary
complaint.

ARRANGEMENT OF THIS SECTION

The regulations which follow are arranged so as to list the General
Student Regulations and Residence Hall Regulations first. All other
regulations follow, arranged alphabetically by title. Each regulation
includes, besides the text, an identification of type; a citation of
approving agencies and date of final approval or most recent amendment;
and a cross reference to other regulations on the same topic where
applicable.

Note: All regulations, policies, administrative rulings and ordinances
are subject to change.

ACADEMIC HONESTY

Academic honesty is central to the educational process and acts of
academic dishonesty are serious offenses within the University
community. Suspension from the University could be the consequence for
acts of academic dishonesty.

Students should be familiar with General Student Regulation 1.00 in
_Protection of Scholarship and Grades_, and with the all-University
policy on _Integrity of Scholarship and Grades_. In addition, it is
important that students clearly understand the specific expectations of
their individual instructors with regard to this important matter. The
process for adjudicating cases of academic dishonesty is outlined in
Section 2.4 of _Academic Freedom for Students at Michigan State
University_.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
