Spartan Life Student Handbook - Acceptable Use Policy for MSU
Information Technology Resources

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology Resources

[Click here to print this page]



ACCEPTABLE USE POLICY FOR MSU INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESOURCES


(Administrative Ruling)
January 27, 2012

A trusted and effective information technology environment (“IT
environment”) is vital to the mission of Michigan State University. To
that end, the University provides an IT environment which includes an
array of institutional electronic business systems, computing services,
networks, databases, and other resources (collectively, “MSU IT
resources” or “resources”). These resources are intended to support the
scholarship and work activities of members of the University’s academic
community and their external collaborators, to support the operations of
the University, and to provide access to services of the University and
other publicly available information.

Access to and usage of MSU IT resources entails certain expectations and
responsibilities for both users and managers of the IT environment. 
These are stated below.


I. Applicability

1.1. This Policy applies to all individuals using MSU IT resources
(“Users”), regardless of affiliation and irrespective of whether these
resources are accessed from MSU’s campus or from remote locations.

1.2. Within MSU’s IT environment, additional rules may apply to specific
computers, computer systems or facilities, software applications,
databases and data sources, data types, or networks, and to the uses
thereof, or to local workplaces, or to specific types of activities
(collectively, “local rules”). Local rules must be consistent with this
Policy, but also may impose additional or more specific requirements or
responsibilities on Users.

1.3. Users will be notified of, or given ready access to (e.g., on a
website), this Policy and local rules that govern use of MSU IT
resources.


II. Purposes and Appropriate Uses

2.1. MSU IT resources are provided for University-related purposes,
including support for the University’s teaching, research, and public
service missions, its administrative functions, and student and campus
life activities.

2.2. Users are granted access to MSU IT resources for the purposes
described in this Policy. Use should be limited to those purposes,
subject to Section 2.3.

2.3. Incidental Personal Use

2.3.1. Users may make incidental personal use of MSU IT resources,
provided that such use is subject to and consistent with this Policy,
including Article 3 of this Policy. In addition, incidental personal use
of MSU IT resources by an MSU employee may not interfere with the
fulfillment of that employee’s job responsibilities or disrupt the work
environment. Incidental personal use that inaccurately creates the
appearance that the University is endorsing, supporting, or affiliated
with any organization, product, service, statement, or position is
prohibited.

2.3.2. Users who make incidental personal use of MSU IT resources do so
at their own risk. The University cannot guarantee the security or
continued operation of any MSU IT resource.


III. User Responsibilities

3.1. Users are responsible for informing themselves of any University
policies, regulations, or other documents that govern the use of MSU IT
resources prior to initiating the use of MSU IT resources.

3.2. Use of Resources Accessed through MSU IT Resources

3.2.1. When using MSU IT resources or resources owned by third-parties
that are accessed using MSU IT resources, Users must comply with all
applicable federal and state laws, all applicable University rules,
ordinances, and policies, and the terms of any contract or license which
governs the use of the third-party resource and by which the User or the
University is bound.

3.2.2. In amplification and not in limitation of the foregoing, Users
must not utilize MSU IT resources to violate copyright, patent,
trademark, or other intellectual property rights.

3.3. Users may not engage in unauthorized use of MSU IT resources,
regardless of whether the resource used is securely protected against
unauthorized use.

3.4. Privacy of Other Users

3.4.1. Users are expected to respect the privacy of other Users, even if
the devices and systems by which other Users access MSU’s IT resources,
the content other Users place on MSU IT resources, or the identities and
privileges (rights to access and use certain systems and/or data), of
other Users are not securely protected.

3.4.2. Unauthorized use by a User of another User’s personal identity or
access (log-in) credentials is prohibited.

3.5. MSU IT resources have a finite capacity. Users should limit their
use of MSU IT resources accordingly and must abide by any limits MSU
places on the use of its IT resources or on the use of any specific IT
resource. In particular, no User may use any IT resource in a manner
which interferes unreasonably with the activities of the University or
of other Users.

3.6. MSU IT resources may not be used to fund raise, advertise, or
solicit unless that use is approved in advance by the University.

3.7. Partisan Political Activities

3.7.1. MSU IT resources may not be used to engage in partisan political
activities on behalf of, or in opposition to, a candidate for public
office.

3.7.2. MSU IT resources may not be used to promote or oppose the
qualification, passage, or defeat of a ballot question that does not
affect the University’s interests. MSU IT resources may not be used to
promote or oppose the qualification, passage, or defeat of a ballot
question that affects the University’s interests unless that use is
approved in advance by the President.

3.7.3. These prohibitions do not apply to private devices that are
attached to the University’s network, provided that MSU IT resources are
not used in a way that suggests the University endorses or supports the
activity originating on the private device.

3.8. MSU IT resources may not be used to operate a business or for
commercial purposes unless that use is approved in advance by the
University.

3.9. MSU IT resources may not be used to support the operations or
activities of organizations that are not affiliated with the University
unless that use is approved in advance by the University.

3.10. Pornography and Sexually Explicit Content

3.10.1. Unless such use is for a scholarly or medical purpose or
pursuant to a formal University investigation, Users may not utilize MSU
IT resources to store, display, or disseminate pornographic or other
sexually explicit content. This prohibition does not apply to private
devices that are attached to the University’s network.

3.10.2. Child pornography is illegal. The use of MSU IT resources to
store, display, or disseminate child pornography is absolutely
prohibited. Any such use must be reported immediately to the MSU Police
Department.

3.11. In operating its IT environment, the University expects Users to
engage in “safe computing” practices, such as establishing appropriate
access restrictions for their accounts, setting strong passwords and
guarding those passwords, keeping their personal operating systems and
software applications up-to-date and patched, and employing security
measures on their personal devices.


IV. Enforcement

4.1. Use of MSU IT resources is a privilege and not a right. A User’s
access to MSU IT resources may be limited, suspended, or terminated if
that User violates this Policy. Alleged violations of this Policy will
be addressed by the Chief Information Security Officer of IT or his/her
designee.

4.2. Users who violate this Policy, other University policies, or
external laws may also be subject to disciplinary action and/or other
penalties. Disciplinary action for violation of this Policy is handled
through the University’s normal student and employee disciplinary
procedures.

4.3. In addition to its own administrative review of possible violations
of this Policy and other University policies, the University may be
obligated to report certain uses of MSU IT resources to law enforcement
agencies. (See, e.g., Section 3.10.2.)

4.4. If the Chief Information Security Officer determines that a User
has violated this Policy and limits, suspends, or terminates the User’s
access to any MSU IT resource as a result, the User may appeal that
decision to the Chief Information Officer (CIO). If the User believes
that his/her appeal has not been appropriately addressed by the CIO,
he/she may seek further redress as follows:

4.4.1. if an undergraduate student, through the Vice President for
Student Affairs, or his/her designee;

4.4.2. if a graduate or professional student, through the Dean of the
Graduate School, or his/her designee;

4.4.3. if a member of the faculty or academic staff, through the
Associate Provost and Associate Vice President for Academic Human
Resources, or his/her designee;

4.4.4. if an employee covered by a collective bargaining agreement,
through the Director of Employee Relations, or his/her designee.

4.5. Alleged violations of local rules will be handled by the local
systems administrator, network administrator, or employee
supervisor/unit manager, depending on the seriousness of the alleged
violation. These individuals will inform and consult with the Chief
Information  Security Officer or his/her designee regarding each alleged
violation of a local rule and the appropriate consequences for any
violation of a local rule. Users who object to the limitation,
suspension, or termination of their access to any MSU IT resource as a
consequence of their violation of a local rule may appeal to the CIO.

4.6. The CIO may temporarily suspend or deny a User’s access to MSU IT
resources when he/she determines that such action is necessary to
protect such resources, the University, or other Users from harm. In
such cases, the CIO will promptly inform other University administrative
offices, as appropriate, of that action. Local MSU IT resource
administrators may suspend or deny a User’s access to the local
resources they administer for the same reasons without the prior review
and approval of the CIO, provided that they immediately notify the Chief
Information Security Officer and the CIO of that action.


V. Security and Operations

5.1. The University may, without further notice to Users, take any
action it deems necessary to protect the interests of the University and
to maintain the stability, security, and operational effectiveness of
its IT resources. Such actions may be taken at the institutional or
local level, and may include, but are not limited to, scanning,
sanitizing, or monitoring of stored data, network traffic, usage
patterns, and other uses of its information technology, and blockade of
unauthorized access to, and unauthorized uses of, its networks, systems,
and data. Local and central institutional IT resource administrators may
take such actions in regard to the resources they manage without the
prior review and approval of the CIO as long as the actions involve
automated tools and not direct human inspection.


VI. Privacy

6.1. General Provisions

6.1.1. Responsible authorities at all levels of the MSU IT environment
will perform management tasks in a manner that is respectful of
individual privacy and promotes User trust.

6.1.2. Monitoring and Routine System Maintenance

6.1.2.1. While the University does not routinely monitor individual
usage of its IT resources, the normal operation and maintenance of those
resources requires the backup of data, the logging of activity, the
monitoring of general usage patterns, and other such activities. The
University may access IT resources as necessary for system maintenance,
including security measures.

6.1.2.2. The University’s routine operation of its IT resources may
result in the creation of log files and other records about usage. This
information is necessary to analyze trends, balance traffic, and perform
other essential administrative tasks. The creation and analysis of this
information may occur at central institutional and local levels.

6.1.2.3. The University may, without further notice, use security tools
and network and systems monitoring hardware and software.

6.1.3. The University may be compelled to disclose Users’ electronic
records in response to various legal requirements, including subpoenas,
court orders, search warrants, discovery requests in litigation, and
requests for public records under the Michigan Freedom of Information
Act (“MIFOIA”).

6.1.4. The University reserves the right to monitor and inspect Users’
records, accounts, and devices as needed to fulfill its legal
obligations and to operate and administer any MSU IT resource.

6.1.5. The University may disclose the results of any general or
individual monitoring or inspection of any User’s record, account, or
device to appropriate University authorities and law enforcement
agencies. The University may also use these results in its disciplinary
proceedings.

6.2. Provisions Regarding Inspections and Disclosure of Personal
Information

6.2.1. General provisions:

6.2.1.1. In order to protect User privacy, the CIO or his/her designee
must review and approve _any_ request for access by a person to an
individual User’s personal communications or electronically stored
information within MSU IT resources.

6.2.1.2. Incidental access to the contents of an individual User’s
personal communications or electronically stored information resulting
from system operational requirements described elsewhere in this Policy
does not require the prior review and approval of the CIO.

6.2.2. The University, acting through the CIO, may access or permit
access to the contents of communications or electronically stored
information:

6.2.2.1. When so required by law. If necessary to comply with the
applicable legal requirement, such disclosures may occur without notice
to the User and/or without the User’s consent.

6.2.2.2. In connection with an investigation by the University or an
external legal authority into any violation of law or of any University
policy, rule, or ordinance. When the investigational process requires
the preservation of the contents of a User’s electronic records to
prevent their destruction, the CIO may authorize such an action.

6.2.2.3. If it determines that access to information in an employee’s
electronic account or file is essential to the operational effectiveness
of a University unit or program and the employee is unavailable or
refuses to provide access to the information.

6.2.2.4. If it receives an appropriately prepared and presented written
request for access to information from an immediate family member or the
lawful representative of a deceased or incapacitated User.

6.2.2.5. If it must use or disclose personally identifiable information
about Users without their consent to protect the health and well-being
of students, employees, or other persons in emergency situations, or to
preserve property from imminent loss or damage, or to prosecute or
defend its legal actions and rights.

-   Revised  June 20, 2012, June 13, 2013

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
