Spartan Life Student Handbook - Alcoholic Beverages

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Alcoholic Beverages

[Click here to print this page]



ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES


1. MSU ORDINANCE 21.00

.01 The use or possession of alcoholic beverages, including beer and
wine, subject to state law, is permissible in housing facilities (rooms,
suites, and apartments) assigned by Michigan State University.

.02 The consumption and possession of alcoholic beverages is prohibited
(a) in classrooms, lecture halls, laboratories, the libraries, and the
chapel, and (b) during all intercollegiate athletic contests and during
entertainment programs that are open to the general public, in the
concourses and outdoor seating areas at Spartan Stadium, the arena and
concourses at Breslin Student Events Center, and in all other athletic
facilities.*

.03 The possession of open or uncapped containers of alcoholic beverages
and the consumption of alcoholic beverages is prohibited in all public
areas of lands governed by the Michigan State University Board of
Trustees and in all public areas of campus buildings, except with
respect to locations, events, or occasions for which the Secretary of
the Board of Trustees has approved, in writing, an exception to this
prohibition. Exceptions to this prohibition will be made pursuant to
guidelines approved by the Board of Trustees.**

2. STATE LAW

Michigan Law prohibits, among other things, possession, purchase, and
consumption of alcoholic beverages by persons under 21 years of age. It
also prohibits the sale and furnishing of alcoholic beverages to persons
under 21 years of age.

There is a potential for legal responsibility when an individual, even
if unlicensed, furnishes alcoholic beverages to persons under 21 years
of age. If a minor to whom the beverage was furnished subsequently has
an accident attributable to the beverage, then the unlicensed furnisher
may be found to be legally liable.

Also under state law, open or unsealed containers of alcoholic beverages
may not be transported in the passenger compartment of motor vehicles.

Students are encouraged to become familiar with their responsibilities
under the State Liquor Control Act, which may be found in the MSU
Library.

3. EAST LANSING ORDINANCES

East Lansing ordinances prohibit the possession of any alcoholic
beverage in an open container or a container with a broken seal in any
public place or private area open to the public, except a licensed
liquor establishment or elsewhere as provided by ordinance. Partying and
tailgating on public property with alcoholic beverages is prohibited
within the city’s jurisdiction.

City ordinance also prohibits the use of any type of false
identification to enter a bar or to purchase liquor from a carry-out
store and requires liquor establishments to confiscate suspected false
identification and turn it over to the Police Department.

Students are encouraged to become familiar with their responsibilities
under East Lansing Ordinances, which may be obtained at East Lansing
City Hall.

*Denotes Civil Infraction
**https://_trustees.msu.edu/ordinances/ordinances_sec21.html_

-   Approved by the Board of Trustees

-   September 15, 1964

-   Revised April 17, 1970, December 10, 1994, April 14, 1995, November
    14, 2003, February 11, 2005, September 16, 2005, April 22, 2014

ZERO TOLERANCE

Michigan has a “zero tolerance” policy for drivers under 21, meaning
their blood alcohol concentration cannot exceed .02 percent. This means
that even one beer is too many.

Minors who have been consuming, possessing or purchasing alcohol are
subject to arrest resulting in a misdemeanor and a criminal record.
Penalties may include fines, community service, suspension of driver’s
license, and substance abuse screening at the individual’s expense.
Suspension of the driver’s license can occur whether or not the
individual was driving at the time of arrest. Repeated offenses result
in more severe penalties.

Use of fraudulent identification to purchase alcohol is also a
misdemeanor and may result in fines, loss of license, and substance
abuse screening.

Anyone 21 or older who furnishes alcohol to a minor will be fined $1,000
and face up to 60 days in jail.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
