Spartan Life Student Handbook - Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by
Internal Users on MSUnet

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet

[Click here to print this page]



GUIDELINES REGARDING BULK EMAIL BY INTERNAL USERS ON MSUNET


(Administrative Ruling)

June 22, 2009

PREAMBLE

Communications are increasingly conducted by way of email and other
electronic means. Because the marginal cost of distributing email is
very small (for the sending party) compared to paper-based or voice
communications and email travels very quickly, email is seen to hold
great potential for cost savings and operational efficiencies.

There also are problems associated with increased use of email:

-   The quantity of undesired email (“spam”) everyone receives is large
    and continues to increase. Spam is not only bothersome and sometimes
    offensive, but it also entails a material cost of personal time to
    process and eliminate from one’s email Inbox. Additionally, it
    diminishes the perceived value of other email received. If opening,
    reading, thinking about and disposing of a piece of mass email takes
    each recipient only 10 seconds, then email sent to and read by every
    MSU student would consume more than 5 person-days of collective
    time, and email sent to and read by every MSU employee almost 2
    person-days of collective time.
-   The university’s electronic network and the subnets, devices and
    storage connected to it are finite resources provided to facilitate
    the scholarship and work of members of the university community.
    Excessive use of bulk email will negatively affect the performance
    of these resources.
-   Not all intended recipients of electronic messages may receive or
    regularly open email, nor have routine access to computers in their
    workplace. Some carefully targeted paper-based communications may
    continue to be necessary in some cases.

Thus, it makes sense to permit broader use of bulk email to promote
institutional operating efficiency, but simultaneously to recognize that
operating efficiency is also critically dependent on judicious use.

GUIDELINES FOR USE OF BULK EMAIL

These guidelines apply to members of the MSU community (students,
faculty, staff, affiliates, university offices and programs). THE
PURPOSES OF THESE GUIDELINES ARE TO IMPROVE THE EFFECTIVENESS AND
EFFICIENCY OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION, AND TO MINIMIZE THE AMOUNT OF
_UNDESIRED_ EMAIL THAT MEMBERS OF THE MSU COMMUNITY RECEIVE FROM OTHER
MEMBERS OF THE MSU COMMUNITY. It is anticipated that the application of
the guidelines (1-6) will minimize the amount of undesired email
originating from within MSU and sent within and outside of the
university. Further, it is hoped that the set of effective practices
described by the design guidelines (A-N) will guide the University
community in decisions and designs regarding the distribution of email.

“Bulk email” in this context means the transmission of an email message
within a short time frame to more than a small set of recipients who may
not have elected voluntarily to receive the email. “Short time frame”
means an interval spanning as long as 2 days. “Small set of recipients”
means the size of individual-recipient address lists (To, CC, BCC
fields) typical of most emails in common use, ranging from 1, to a few,
to as many as may be involved in a large committee or work group
(20-30). Use of mailing lists and listservs to which recipients may
voluntarily opt in and opt out is encouraged, and this type of email
distribution is not included in the meaning of “bulk email” in this
document.

-   PROHIBITED USES. Bulk emailing may NOT be used for personal
    purposes, advertising or solicitations, or political statements or
    purposes.
-   PERMITTED USES FOR BROAD CROSS-UNIVERSITY MAILING. Bulk emailing may
    be used only by university offices to send communications necessary
    to the normal course of business and which typically require some
    official action be taken individually by recipients. Such permitted
    uses include:
    -   Dissemination of urgent information of health and safety concern
        for students and university employees.
    -   Communication of information regarding changes of university
        policies or procedures, or actions that affect employment or
        compensation status, or status as a student.
    -   Regular communications (for example, to university employees)
        that are required by law, regulation or university policy for
        which bulk email may largely replace paper transmittal.
-   PERMITTED USES FOR TARGETED MAILING. In support of certain permitted
    uses, university offices may create and use mailing lists for
    communicating with targeted university sub-populations having a
    special interest in the specific information being distributed
    (e.g., account signers, budget and business officers, academic
    advisors, etc.). Offices are encouraged to use listservs and
    websites as much as possible for distribution of information of
    targeted interest. Similarly, faculty and others involved in
    instruction may email targeted sub-populations having a special
    interest in the information being distributed, such as students
    enrolled in their class(es).

-   PERMITTED USES WITHIN MAUS. Major Administrative Units (colleges,
    divisions) and schools, departments, institutes and centers of the
    university may, at their own discretion and constrained to their own
    administrative domains only, expand on the permitted uses to send
    bulk email to their own faculty, students and staff regarding
    announcements, newsletter-type content, or their own governance and
    business issues.
-   SURVEYS. It is desirable to minimize the use of bulk email for
    surveying for all of the reasons given in the “Preamble” and to
    minimize the frequency of bulk email generally. Additionally, care
    needs to be taken such that surveys do not interfere with MSU’s
    employee relationships developed through collective bargaining
    agreements and contracting cycles, or with surveying or other
    actions that MSU may undertake for institutional interests such as
    institutional research, external reporting or participation in
    multi-institutional studies.
-   APPROVALS: All bulk email surveys must receive prior approval by the
    appropriate university office(s):
    -   Surveys that are intended to include students must be approved
        by and coordinated through the Office of the Registrar. The
        Registrar will consult additionally with and obtain the
        approvals of the Chair of the Committee on Release of
        Confidential Information and the Dean of Undergraduate Studies
        for surveys intended to include undergraduate students, and the
        Dean of the Graduate School for studies intended to include
        graduate students.
    -   Surveys that are not being sent to students must be approved by
        and coordinated through IT Services. IT Services will expect
        that additional applicable approvals will have been obtained by
        the requestor, and may assist the requestor in consulting with
        the appropriate offices to obtain those approvals.
    -   Surveys intended to include MSU employees (faculty, staff or
        graduate student employees) must be reviewed and approved in
        advance by Human Resources Office of Employee Relations, which
        will additionally consult with and obtain the approval of:
        Academic Human Resources for surveys intended to include MSU
        faculty or academic staff, and the Dean of the Graduate School
        for surveys intended to include graduate student employees;
        Employee Relations may also consult with or need to obtain the
        approval of the appropriate collective bargaining units.
    -   For all surveys, if the results of a survey might be published,
        the survey must be approved in advance by the University
        Committee on Research Involving Human Subjects.

-   OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
    -   All surveys should be carefully targeted to impact only those
        recipients who may be legitimate subjects of the survey. Surveys
        of large groups (e.g., all faculty, all staff) should be
        conducted through stratified samples of the group rather than an
        email to the entire group.
    -   Bulk email associated with a survey should be minimal in
        content, containing an invitation to the survey and explaining
        its purpose, and providing a link to the survey itself at a
        separate website.
    -   The Office of the Registrar or IT Services may charge a fee for
        assisting with a survey.
    -   Survey requests generally are not accepted from non-University
        requestors.

-   QUESTIONS AND AMBIGUITIES REGARDING THE GUIDELINES. The CIO shall be
    consulted regarding questions or ambiguities involving bulk email or
    these guidelines. Complaints regarding the misuse of email, the
    distribution of bulk email that may or does violate these
    guidelines, etc., should be directed to abuse@msu.edu, for
    consideration by MSUnet administrators.

DESIGN GUIDELINES

Judicious and well-managed use of bulk email, even for permitted
purposes, is critical to maintaining recipients’ perspectives of the
validity and effectiveness of electronic communications. The following
additional design guidelines are strongly suggested for any email
distributions originating from the MSU community and sent to recipients
inside or outside the University:

-   Use bulk email infrequently and for reasons of high value to the
    recipients.
-   Keep bulk email messages short.
-   Always use a valid MSUnet address in the “From” line.
-   Always use a clear, specific and non-empty subject line.
-   Use plain text; avoid HTML.
-   Clearly identify in the body of the message the originating unit or
    individual, the scope of individuals being emailed, and the purpose
    of the message.
-   Use URLs rather than attachments to refer readers to policy or
    practice statements, and long content.
-   Do not include or attach personal, confidential or sensitive
    information. To assure the integrity of student education records,
    consult MSU’s Guidelines Governing Privacy and Release of Student
    Records.
-   Carefully target lists of recipients to minimize the number of
    people who receive any given bulk emailing.
-   Do not assume that all targeted individuals will receive the email
    (i.e., do not disadvantage those who may not receive the email).
-   Send large quantities of bulk email at non-peak times for email
    traffic (e.g., after 5:00 pm and before noon).
-   Use existing targeted mailing lists and listservs whenever possible,
    within the permitted uses of the lists. Recipients should be allowed
    to opt-in and opt-out of listservs at their own discretion.
-   Use the “blind carbon copy” (bcc:) address field to suppress a long
    list of addresses in the “To” field.
-   Email sent to students must comply with the Family Educational
    Rights and Privacy Act and MSU’s Guidelines Governing Privacy and
    Release of Student Records, and should be sent using the “Blind
    Carbon Copy” (BCC:) address field to suppress names of students to
    whom the email is being addressed.

Consulted in development of this document:

-   Council of Deans (Fall 2003)
-   Provost’s staff (Fall 2003, Spring 2004)
-   Vice President for Finance and Operations staff (Fall 2003,
    Spring 2004)
-   CORE group of vice presidents (Summer 2004)
-   Communications and Computer Systems Advisory Committees
-   Network Communications Committee (Fall 2004)
-   Instructional Computing and Technology Committee (Fall 2004)
-   Revised June 20, 2012
-   Revised June 10, 2013
-   Revised July 15, 2016
-   Revised June 5, 2017

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
