Spartan Life Student Handbook - Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition
Drives

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives

[Click here to print this page]



CAMPAIGNING, CANVASSING, AND PETITION DRIVES


Persons interested in conducting political activities on the University
campus should contact the Student Life Office, 101 Student Services
Building, for information regarding the means by which political
activities may be conducted on grounds governed by the Michigan State
University Board of Trustees.

“Political activities” include:

1. CAMPAIGNING – for an issue or a candidate which appears or will
appear on a duly constituted ballot for a University, local, state or
national election.

2. PETITION DRIVES – to place an issue on a duly constituted ballot, to
seek a recall, to have a referendum.

3. CANVASSING – direct personal contact with individual voters to
solicit their political support or opinions.

4. VOTER REGISTRATION.

ACCESS TO RESIDENCE HALLS

While MSU’s commitment to maintaining the safety and security of
on-campus residents is paramount, civic groups are able and encouraged
to carry out voter engagement activities in the public areas of
residence halls and are welcome to display election related information
on public bulletin boards.

Individuals and organizations may post materials on public bulletin
boards on public floors and in public spaces in residence halls. Prior
approval is not required to post information in these locations.
Materials that are untimely, in poor physical condition (e.g., torn,
ripped, dirty, defaced), market illegal activities, or constitute a
violation of law or university policies (including the
Anti-Discrimination Policy) will not be permitted.

All residence halls at MSU are equipped with electronic building access
technology, restricting access to exterior doors, living wings, and
elevators. Living wings in the residence halls are locked 24 hours a
day, seven days a week. Residents have living wing access to the
residence hall in which they live. Hall residents may sign in a
candidate or member of a civic organization and may agree to escort the
individual throughout the hall as a guest. Guests must be escorted
throughout the duration of the visit. During the visit, guests may
canvass, register voters, campaign, provide election information and/or
bring petition drives for signature. Note: Escorts are not required when
a resident of that hall is conducting the activity alone.

For residence halls with no public access on the main floor, please note
the following exceptions:

-   Residents in the West Circle section of North Neighborhood have
    access to all West Circle residence halls between the hours of 7:00
    a.m. and 11:59 p.m.
-   Residents of Mason, Abbot, Snyder and Phillips halls have access to
    all four residence halls between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:59
    p.m.
-   Residents in Brody Neighborhood have access to all residence halls
    in the neighborhood between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:59 p.m.
-   Residents of East, South and River Trail neighborhoods should
    conduct the above activities only during the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
    11:59 p.m. when the Service Centers are in full operation.

Individuals who are resident guests must register at the hall’s Service
Center Front Desk upon arrival and prior to moving through the hall(s).
Residents who do not wish to have groups stop by their room or
apartment, should display a “No Solicitation” sign on their door.

Questions regarding table reservations in public spaces for groups or
candidates should be directed to University Conference Services at (517)
353.9300. Questions regarding residence hall access should be directed
to the Safety & Security Administrator for Residence Education and
Housing Services at (517) 353.3780.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
