Spartan Life Student Handbook - Distribution of Literature

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Distribution of Literature

[Click here to print this page]



DISTRIBUTION OF LITERATURE


(Article 9 of _Michigan State University Student Rights and
Responsibilities_)

I. DEFINITIONS

A. Independent student publications: Publications that are prepared and
distributed, at least in part, by students and that are not funded by
the administrative units of the University. Independent student
publications are typically publications of student living units,
governing groups, registered student organizations, or student groups.

B. University-supported student publications: Publications that receive
funding from administrative units of the University.

II. GENERAL GUIDELINES

A. Students and student groups shall have maximum freedom to express
opinions and communicate ideas by preparing and distributing independent
student publications.

B. The University shall neither authorize nor prohibit the solicitation
of advertising by an independent student publication.

C. Administrative units may provide advice and counsel, but all
University-supported student publications shall be guaranteed freedom of
content and editorial policy.

D. The withdrawal of financial support as a means of censorship over
those University-supported student publications which are in substance a
forum for free speech is recognized to be inappropriate.

E. A University-funded publication should identify the campus unit
responsible for its preparation and distribution.

F. Regulations governing distribution of publications shall apply
equally to all publications.

G. No door-to-door solicitations for sale shall be permitted in
organized living units on the campus without permission from the proper
governing authority for the living unit. Each on-campus living unit
shall decide what policies shall be formulated for distribution of
publications within the living unit.

H. For buildings other than organized living units, the Secretary of the
Board of Trustees and the all-University student governing bodies, after
consultation with the administrative, faculty, and student occupants of
the building, shall determine designated places for the distribution of
publications.

I. Publications may be distributed in living units, classroom buildings,
and office buildings, but only in the places established through the
procedures described above. Hand-to-hand distribution is permitted in
all public areas of campus buildings, subject to building security and
access rules and such limitations as are necessary to prevent
interference with scheduled University activities.

J. Publications shall be permitted outside campus buildings, subject
only to such limitations as are necessary to prevent interference with
the use of streets, sidewalks, and building entrances for other
purposes.

K. The offices of the Secretary of the Board of Trustees and ASMSU shall
keep available for inspection an up-to-date list of places of
distribution within campus buildings.

L. Any regulations necessary to implement these guidelines shall be
developed in accordance with Article 8 of this document.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
