Spartan Life Student Handbook - Financial Accounts-Student Organizations

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Financial Accounts-Student Organizations

[Click here to print this page]



FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS-STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS


(Student Group Regulation)

1. GENERAL POLICY

a. The University does not require student organizations to have their
financial accounts with the Controller’s Office. They are, however,
encouraged to follow good accounting principles and effective financial
control of their funds.

b. Registered student organizations, on-campus living unit
organizations, major governing groups, Associated Students of Michigan
State University, and Council of Graduate Students may request to have a
financial account with the Controller’s Office, and shall be given an
account upon request.

c. Registered student organizations sponsoring revenue-producing events
on the campus or in University facilities must have a University
financial account and all revenues and expenditures of the
revenue-producing event must go through this account unless the revenues
are under $50 per day. The University through the Student Affairs and
Services Division reserves the right to review and audit this account.

d. Student organizations having the right to use University facilities
and services have the option of paying for the use of University
facilities and services either by cash, or through their University
account, if such an account exists. The University may require that cash
payments be made in advance.

e. A signature card designating the person and/or persons authorized to
sign forms calling for the expenditure of funds from the organization’s
University account must be on file with the Controller’s Office.
Organizations are not required to designate an advisor as the authorized
person.

f. Student organizations and their officers are responsible for any
financial obligations incurred by the organization and for any overdraft
in their University account.

g. The University will not be obligated to process authorized
expenditures, if there are not sufficient funds in the student
organization’s University account. All other authorized expenditures
will be processed, unless prohibited by law or applicable University
regulations.

h. If a registered student organization fails to re-register by the end
of the second week of the fall term, the organization’s account will be
closed automatically.

-   Associated Students of Michigan State University

-   Council of Graduate Students

-   University Committee on Student Affairs

-   Vice President for Student Affairs and Services

-   June 20, 1969; Revised June 6, 1986

2. PROCEDURES (ADMINISTRATIVE RULING)
Procedures related to financial transactions involving the use of a
University account have been developed and approved by the Controller’s
Office. Copies of these procedures may be obtained in the Controller’s
Office (Accounting Department, 360 Administration Building) or in the
Student Life Office, 101 Student Services Building.

(See also: _General Student Regulation 4.00_ and _5.00_.)

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
