Spartan Life Student Handbook - Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU

[Click here to print this page]



DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY, MSU


(All-University Policy) (Applicable to University employees as well as
students)

Congress has passed and the President has signed the Drug- Free
Workplace Act of 1988 and Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act
Amendment of 1989. The following is Michigan State University’s Drug and
Alcohol Policy for employees and students.

EMPLOYEES¹

Consistent with State and Federal Law, Michigan State University will
maintain a workplace free from the unlawful manufacture, distribution,
dispensation, possession or use of a controlled substance.² The unlawful
manufacture, distribution, dispensation, possession or use of controlled
substances, illicit drugs and alcohol are prohibited on any property
under the control of and governed by the Board of Trustees of Michigan
State University, and at any site where work is performed by individuals
on behalf of Michigan State University.

Pursuant to applicable University procedures governing employee
discipline, any employee involved in the unlawful use, sale,
manufacturing, dispensing or possession of controlled substances,
illicit drugs and alcohol on University premises or work sites, or
working under the influence of such substances, will be subject to
disciplinary action up to and including dismissal and referral for
prosecution.

The employee must notify the University of any criminal drug statute
conviction for a violation occurring in the workplace no later than five
(5) calendar days after such conviction. Failure to provide such notice
will subject the employee to discipline up to and including dismissal
pursuant to applicable University procedures governing employee
discipline. The employee shall notify his/her immediate supervisor, who
will report the incident to the Office of Human Resources, Academic
Human Resources or Student Employment Office.

Michigan State University supports and sponsors programs aimed at the
prevention of substance abuse by University employees. The Employee
Assistance Program provides preventative programs and counseling for
employees experiencing substance-dependency problems. Assistance is
available on a voluntary basis. Leaves of absence to obtain treatment
may be obtained under the medical leave provision of the appropriate
labor contract or policy.

‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾
¹ This policy applies to all University employees, including but not
limited to: faculty, academic staff, support staff and student
employees.

² Five schedules of controlled substances are defined in the
comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970, 21. U.S.C.
812.

STUDENTS

Michigan State University’s compliance with provisions of the Drug-Free
Schools and Communities Act Amendments of 1989 applying to students is
achieved through a comprehensive alcohol and other drug prevention
program which includes policy enforcement, education programs and
treatment services.

General Student Regulations 2.11 and 2.12 prohibit the unlawful
possession, use, or distribution of illicit drugs and alcohol by
students on Michigan State University property or as part of any of its
activities. These regulations are as follows:

2.11 “No student shall possess, use, manufacture, produce, sell,
exchange or otherwise distribute any drug prohibited by federal or state
laws.”

2.12 “No student shall possess, consume, furnish, manufacture, sell,
exchange or otherwise distribute any alcoholic beverages except as
permitted by state law and University ordinance.”

Alleged violations of MSU regulations are adjudicated through the MSU
student judicial process. Consequences for violations may include, but
are not limited to, some form of disciplinary probation, required
attendance at educational programs, referral for assessment and
treatment, relocation to a new living environment, and suspension from
Michigan State University for sale of illegal drugs or repeated
violations of the regulations. In addition, students can expect to be
arrested and fined for violations of State Law on campus.

Michigan State University supports and sponsors programs aimed at the
prevention of substance abuse by students. Information about education
and treatment services may be obtained from the Olin Health Education
Office, Olin Health Center and the Counseling Center.

-   President

-   Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs

-   Vice President for Finance and Operations and Treasurer

-   Vice President for Student Affairs and Services

-   Board of Trustees, October 12, 1990

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
