Spartan Life Student Handbook - Registered Student Organizations

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Registered Student Organizations

[Click here to print this page]



REGISTERED STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS


(Student Group Regulation)

A. INTRODUCTION
A MSU registered student organization is a volunteer group comprised of
enrolled students organized to obtain certain goals and objectives. The
goals and objectives of these organizations are met through educational,
social, cultural, religious, or philanthropic activities. These
activities should enhance and support MSU students, the University, and
the community. Membership in organizations benefits students’ growth and
education while attending the University.

The University acknowledges the importance registered student
organizations have on campus. As such, these organizations have the use
of University facilities and services to assist them in meeting their
goals and objectives.

It is the responsibility of each registered student organization to
adhere to the mission of this University and its supporting bylaws and
statutes. An organization’s goals, objectives, and activities are not to
deviate from established University policies or regulations.

Due to the cyclical nature in the goals and objectives of these
organizations, the Vice President for Student Affairs and Services, or
his/her designee, shall review this document every five years (starting
in 1991) with ASMSU, COGS, and other appropriate student groups.

B. REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS

1. In order to exercise the privileges accorded registered student
organizations, a student group which is not a living-unit organization
must register with the Student Affairs and Services Division.

2. Registration shall be valid from the date of registration until the
end of the second week of the succeeding fall semester. STUDENT
ORGANIZATIONS MUST REGISTER EACH YEAR. Registration for an academic year
can begin as early as August 1 of the previous academic year.

3. Registered Student Organizations must have an advisor(s).

a. For undergraduate organizations, an advisor must be an MSU faculty
member, staff member, or graduate student. For graduate student
organizations, the advisor must be an MSU faculty or staff member.

b. Advisors must sign an agreement form acknowledging their
understanding of advisor responsibilities.

4. A constitution must be included in the organization’s file. A written
constitution must provide:

a. A statement of purpose.

b. Eligibility of voting membership including that only students
registered with Michigan State University are eligible to be officers
and/or voting members.

c. Necessary operating procedures such as committees, rules of order,
etc.

d. That the organization agrees to abide by the terms of the
university’s Anti-Discrimination policy.

e. Procedures for amending the constitution.

5. To be registered, a student organization must also file the following
information with the Student Affairs and Services Division:

a. The name of the organization.

b. The names, addresses, phone numbers, and student numbers of four
members including the organization’s officers and their titles.

c. The purpose of the organization.

d. The name(s) of the advisor(s).

(NOTE: Sample constitutions and registration forms will be available
through the Division of Student Affairs and Services.)

6. The Student Affairs and Services Division and the organization’s
advisor must be notified of any change made in the original required
information. The information must be presented within four weeks after
an organization has instituted the change.

7. If the required information is not submitted, a group will be denied
registration.

8. Registered student organizations may also submit (if available) to
the Student Affairs and Services Division the following information:

a. Notification of national affiliations.

b. Notification of dates, times, and locations of regularly scheduled
meetings.

c. Notification of dates, times, and locations of regular and special
activities for the following year.

9. No organization may have its registration denied or suspended on the
grounds of its beliefs or its attitude except that an organization’s
goals, objectives, and activities are not to deviate from established
University policies or regulations.

10. A student organization may have its registration suspended if:

a. The organization is found to be in violation of submitting falsified
required information by the Student Affairs and Services Division.

b. The organization is found to be in violation of an ordinance or
written policy or regulation of Michigan State University by the Student
Affairs and Services Division.

11. Any or all parts of a decision by Student Affairs and Services
Division personnel to suspend the registration of a student organization
may be appealed to the All-University Student Judiciary. The student
organization can continue to operate within University guidelines,
procedures, and regulations until the appeals process is exhausted.

12. Upon request, a student organization will be provided with a list of
University facilities and services available to qualifying registered
student organizations.

-   Associated Students of Michigan State University

-   Council of Graduate Students

-   University Committee on Student Affairs

-   Vice President for Student Affairs and Services

-   September 1, 1968, Amended, June 1980,

-   Revised, June 6, 1986

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
