Spartan Life Student Handbook - Student Fee Collection (Student
Taxation)

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations
    -   Student Consumer Information
    -   Types of Rules and Regulations
    -   General Student Regulations
    -   Residence Hall Bill of Rights - Undergraduate and Graduate Halls
    -   Residence Hall Regulations - Undergraduate Halls
    -   Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings,
        All-University Policies, and Selected Ordinances
        -   Academic Policies and Requirements
        -   Acceptable Use Policy for MSU Information Technology
            Resources
        -   Address Change
        -   Address Withholding Policy
        -   Alcoholic Beverages
        -   All-University Events and Activities
        -   Animals
        -   Anti-Discrimination Policy
        -   Bad Check/Returned ACH Collection
        -   Bicycles
        -   Campaigning, Canvassing, and Petition Drives
        -   Camping
        -   Campus Mail Service
        -   Code of Teaching Responsibility
        -   Conflict of Interest in Educational Responsibilities
            Resulting from Consensual Amorous or Sexual Relationships
            ^(1,\ 2)
        -   Copyright Notice
        -   Disorderly Assemblages or Conduct
        -   Distribution of Literature
        -   Distribution of Material in Residence Halls
        -   Drug and Alcohol Policy, MSU
        -   Email Notice for Students
        -   Examinations
        -   Facilities and Services, University
        -   Financial Accounts-Student Organizations
        -   Firearms or Weapons
        -   Fires
        -   Food, Public Sale on Campus
        -   Free Speech Rights and Responsibilities: President's
            Statement
        -   Funding Student-Sponsored Programs and Activities by
            University Administrative Units, Criteria for
        -   Grief Absence Policy
        -   Guidelines Regarding Bulk Email by Internal Users on MSUnet
        -   Holds on Enrollment, Registration, Readmission, and
            University Services
        -   Housing Policy, Student
        -   Hoverboards, Skateboards and Similar Devices
        -   Identification Cards
        -   Insurance
        -   Integrity of Scholarship and Grades
        -   Library Policy
        -   Mandatory Assessment and Involuntary Withdrawal Policy
        -   Officer Eligibility-Student Organizations
        -   Outside Speakers Sponsored by Registered Student
            Organizations
        -   Parades, Processions, and Sound Trucks
        -   Plant Materials
        -   Public Address Equipment
        -   Records
        -   Registered Student Organizations
        -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct, Policy On
        -   Religious Observance, Policy on
        -   Residence Hall Room Entry Policy
        -   Residential Safety and Security
        -   Safety
        -   Selling and Advertising
        -   Selling and Solicitation Central Guidelines
        -   Signs and Structures
        -   Smoke and Tobacco-Free Policy
        -   Smoking
        -   Student Disorderly Conduct Policy, MSU
        -   Student Events-Social
        -   Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)
        -   Undercover Surveillance Involving MSU Student Organizations¹
        -   University Trademarks
        -   Vehicles
        -   Impounded Vehicles
        -   Withdrawal Procedures and Policies
        -   Other Ordinances


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Regulations

> Student Group Regulations, Administrative Rulings, All-University
Policies, and Selected Ordinances

> Student Fee Collection (Student Taxation)

[Click here to print this page]



STUDENT FEE COLLECTION (STUDENT TAXATION)


(All-University Policy)

Michigan State University will have a student tax system that will allow
students to assess themselves taxes for the purpose of supporting
student sponsored programs and services. The all-University student
governing bodies (Council of Graduate Students and the Associated
Students of Michigan State University) and the on-campus residence unit
governing groups (Residence Halls Association, University Apartments
Council of Residents, and Owen Graduate Association) are authorized to
collect refundable and mandatory student taxes from their constituent
groups subject to initial student referendum and renewal referendum
every three years. Additional criteria, procedures, and accountability
measures for the use of University collection procedures by the above
mentioned groups are to be developed by appropriate
administrative offices.

Until further action by the Board, an exception will exist for The State
News, Inc., which will continue to collect student tax assessments under
the same procedures that have been in effect since The State News, Inc.,
became a separately incorporated organization.

-   Board of Trustees

-   December 2, 1983

STUDENT FEE COLLECTION CRITERIA AND PROCEDURES
(ADMINISTRATIVE RULING)
I. ALL-UNIVERSITY STUDENT GOVERNING BODIES AND ON-CAMPUS RESIDENCE
GOVERNING GROUPS

University policy provides that Michigan State University will collect
mandatory and refundable fees for all-University student governing
bodies (Associated Students of Michigan State University and Council of
Graduate Students) and on-campus residence governing groups (Residence
Halls Association, University Apartments Council of Residents, and Owen
Graduate Association). The criteria and procedures follow:

A. All-University student governing bodies and on-campus residence
governing groups shall meet the following provisions before the
University will collect fees from constituents of the all-University
student governing bodies or the on-campus residence governing groups:

1. The all-University student governing bodies and the on-campus
residence governing groups shall have constitutions duly ratified by
their student constituencies and recognized by the University.

2. The power to assess fees of student constituents must be granted in
their constitutions. These all-University governing bodies and the
on-campus residence governing groups have the right to assess fees on
their student constituencies.

3. The Student Affairs and Services Division and the Business and
Finance Division will establish the procedures for collection of
mandatory and refundable fees in consultation with the all-University
student governing bodies and on-campus residence governing groups.

4. The all-University student governing bodies and the on-campus
residence governing groups will establish procedures to refund collected
fees to students making the request within the first 10 class days of
each academic semester.

5. The all-University student governing bodies and the on-campus
residence governing groups will make available a yearly financial report
to the student population and to the Division of Student Affairs and
Services formatted by the executive committee of each all-University
student governing body or on-campus residence governing group. If an
all-University student governing body or on-campus residence governing
group has subdivided its total fee assessment by major governing groups,
organizations, or programs (see I.B.), the yearly financial report of
the parent all-University student governing body or on-campus residence
governing group must contain information from these constituent major
governing groups, organizations, or programs. The availability of this
report shall be publicized by November 1 in a publication that is
distributed campus-wide to their constituent students.

B. Constituent major governing groups, organizations, and programs of
the all-University student governing bodies and on-campus residence
governing groups may petition or request from their parent governing
body or group monies to fund their activities.

The all-University student governing bodies and on-campus residence
governing groups may, however, allow their student constituencies to
authorize through referendum process the collection of a fee assessment
for a specific major governing group, organization or program (see
Section III). If such a fee collection is authorized through the
referendum process, the parent all-University student governing body or
on-campus residence governing group may develop requirements and
procedures that govern the use of the fees collected by the specific
major governing group, organization, or program.

C. The mandatory and refundable fee collected by the University on
behalf of these all-University student governing bodies or on-campus
residence governing groups shall be subject to renewal by referendum of
the affected student constituency every three years.

1. If an all-University student governing body or on-campus residence
governing group has subdivided its total fee assessment by major
governing groups, organizations, or programs, the renewal referendum
will be conducted on each major governing group, organization, or
program every three years.

2. Renewal of the fee requires an approval by a majority of the students
voting.

II. INCORPORATED STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS
University collection procedures may not be used by an all-University
student governing body, major student governing group, or student
organization which is separately incorporated.

III. REFERENDUM FOR ESTABLISHMENT, MODIFICATION, OR REMOVAL
An additional referendum for either establishment, modification, or
removal of an all-University student governing body or on-campus
residence governing group will be held if the following conditions have
been met:

A. A student, major governing group, organization, or program has
obtained, by written petition, the written support of at least thirty
percent of the affected student constituency for such a referendum. The
petition must fairly represent the action that is being requested.
Petitions may be circulated from the first day of early registration to
the last day of the fifth week of the semester in which the early
registration applied. The petitions will be validated by the Vice
President for Student Affairs and Services at the expense of the
student, major governing group, organization, or program.

1. Upon validation of the petitions, a referendum shall be held in a
manner prescribed by the Vice President for Student Affairs and
Services. A majority (fifty percent plus one) of the affected student
constituency must vote, and the referendum must be approved by a
majority of those voting. Renewal procedures are outlined in Section IV.

2. The costs of all initial and renewal referenda authorized by the
procedure outlined in the section of the administrative ruling (III.A.)
will be borne by the requesting student, major governing group,
organization, or program.

B. An all-University student governing body or on-campus residence
governing group may request a referendum to establish a mandatory fee
assessment of a new and different student constituency or they may
request a referendum to authorize the collection of fees for a specific
major governing group, organization, or program. This referendum shall
be held in a manner prescribed by the Vice President for Student Affairs
and Services. The referendum will be open only to the proposed student
constituency. A majority of that constituency (fifty percent plus one)
must vote on the referendum, and approval for the referendum must be by
a majority of those voting.

1. At the time of renewal for fees authorized by the procedure outlined
in this section of the administrative ruling (III.B.), the
all-University student governing body or on-campus residence governing
group that initially requested the referendum for the specific major
governing group, organization, or program must decide if it wishes to
continue to support the specific major governing group, organization, or
program. Renewal referendum procedures are outlined in Section IV. If
the all-University student governing body or on-campus residence
governing group withdraws its support, the renewal referendum will not
be held and the collection of taxes will cease after the spring semester
of the third year that the taxes have been collected for the specific
major governing group, organization or program.

2. The costs of all initial and renewal referenda authorized by the
procedure outlined in this section of the administrative ruling (III.B.)
will be borne by the requesting major governing group, organization, or
program (or all-University student governing body or on-campus residence
governing group if a new and different student constituency is being
taxed).

C. An all-University student governing body or on-campus residence
governing group may request a referendum for modification or removal of
any previously established fee under its jurisdiction. A specific major
governing group, organization, or program may also request a referendum
for modification or removal of any fee it is receiving. These referenda
shall be held during the next entire registration procedure except
summer term. The referenda must be approved by a majority of students
voting.

D. When a student fee is established or modified through a referendum,
the new fee will take effect two registration periods after the
registration period in which the referendum was conducted (e.g., a
referendum conducted fall registration, new fee takes effect summer
registration; a referendum conducted spring registration, new fee takes
effect at fall registration).

IV. REFERENDUM FOR RENEWAL

A. Renewal referenda on the taxes collected for the all-University
student governing bodies and on-campus residence governing groups shall
be conducted on a rotating basis during spring semester. Not more than
two renewal issues shall be on the ballot during the same period.
Renewal of the fees requires an approval by a majority of the students
voting.

B. If the referendum is not approved, fees will not be collected
commencing with the following fall semester. An all-University student
governing body or an on-campus residence group may request a new
referendum to re-establish the fee. This referendum may be conducted any
term except summer term. Reestablishment of the fee requires that a
majority (fifty percent plus one) of the affected student constituency
must vote in the referendum. The referendum must then be approved by a
majority of those voting.

V. UNIVERSITY AUTHORIZATION FOR TAX COLLECTION
The Vice President for Student Affairs and Services shall be the
University official empowered to authorize tax collections and/or
referenda if the all-University governing bodies or on-campus residence
governing groups have met the appropriate provisions of this
Administrative Ruling.

VI. VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES
If it is alleged that any all-University student governing body,
on-campus residence governing group, major governing group, organization
or program is violating the regulations and procedures in this
Administrative Ruling, the Vice President for Student Affairs and
Services or his/her designee shall conduct a hearing on this matter. If
it is the judgment of the Vice President for Student Affairs and
Services that violation of procedures is evident, the affected group(s)
may be suspended from collection privileges.

VII. PETITION, REFERENDUM, AND COLLECTION COSTS
The costs associated with validating petitions, conducting referenda,
and collecting fees will be borne by the requesting group(s) or
student(s).

-   Vice President for Student Affairs and Services

-   June, 1984

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
