---
title: |
    Appendix A. Retaining Women and Minority Faculty - Affirmative Action
    Handbook
---

::: {#body}
Affirmative Action

**Appendix A. Retaining Women and Minority Faculty - Affirmative Action
Handbook**

::: {xmlns=""}
An administrative unit expends considerable effort to secure an open
position for hiring a new faculty member and to recruit a high quality
person to fill that open position. Hiring a new faculty member who fails
to succeed at MSU can be very costly.
:::

Achieving tenure at a competitive university like MSU requires an
excellent effort. A new faculty member is more likely to attain tenure
if she/he receives guidance from the unit administrator and a senior
faculty member during the early years at MSU.

It little profits an institution to recruit women and minorities and
then fail to retain them. Furthermore, there is an ethical
responsibility on the part of the institution to recognize the unique
problems faced by the individuals it recruits and to strive to overcome
those difficulties.

Since women and minorities in some units and colleges do not share in
the informal professional network enjoyed by majority men, efforts
should be taken to mentor or at least advise women and minorities soon
after they arrive about issues they will confront at Michigan State and
in the development of their professional careers. The requirements and
time frame, for instance, for tenure and promotion, the types of
evidence and records that should be collected and retained for tenure
and promotion, the need to document teaching effectiveness, the
importance of research in the tenure and promotion process, the
requirements for merit pay increases, the role of the annual review\--to
name only a very few-are among the topics that should be explained by
the unit administrator. Given the fact that community service demands
are frequently heavy for women and minorities, the recently hired
individual should be told by the unit administrator, both verbally and
in writing, if this type of activity will be rewarded through merit pay
increases and recognized as a significant element in tenure and
promotion review. A unit administrator may also wish to share with women
and minority colleagues the curricula vitae of recent successful
candidates for tenure and promotion.

Counseling sessions of this nature are too important to be confined to
an orientation meeting. Unit administrators may wish to consider holding
such meetings with new colleagues on an ongoing basis to discuss issues
of timely importance\--e.g., satisfaction with one\'s teaching
assignments, types of journals and presses to which one should consider
submitting manuscripts, and plans for release time.

The \"Survive and Thrive in the MSU Academic Personnel System\" workshop
is offered each year during the Fall semester. This program emphasizes
how to progress in the tenure system and is intended for all
probationary tenure system faculty. The topics include:

::: {xmlns=""}
-   the formal reappointment, promotion, and tenure process;
-   documentation and record keeping;
-   strategies and procedures for obtaining research grants;
-   mentors and networks
:::

Experienced members of the faculty, including women and/or minority
professors already in the unit, should be encouraged to function as
unofficial mentors for newly hired women and minorities. Serving as a
mentor should be recognized as an important activity and a faculty
member should be rewarded for it. As mentors, senior professors may
provide guidance for their teaching by examining the syllabi, teaching
materials, and examinations, as well as by visiting their classes.
Mentors may also provide an evaluation of their research when it is in
an early state of development, offer suggestions for future scholarly
activities and research planning, counsel one on participation in
professional organizations and conferences, and offer advice on the
pursuit of University and external funding for research. The mentor may
wish to include the new faculty member in an ongoing research project or
as a co-principal investigator for a research proposal. In addition,
colleagues can discuss with new faculty the unique demands on their time
which they will confront in their unit and in the East Lansing community
and how to balance those demands with their teaching, research and
service responsibilities. While these activities are desirable for all
new faculty, they are especially helpful to women and minorities.

Ideally, mentoring and counseling should be initiated by the senior
faculty member. Women and minority faculty members are reluctant to ask
a senior colleague to give professional advice or to review manuscripts.
They believe that such requests would be seen by colleagues as an
imposition and an infringement on their time or as a sign of weakness on
the part of the new faculty member.

In addition to drawing women and minorities into the professional life
of the unit, senior professors may be able to reduce the sense of social
isolation often experienced by new faculty. Inviting new colleagues to
lunch or to social functions will help them feel that they are fully
involved in the life of the academic community.

Although time is a commodity in precious short supply for most faculty,
women and minorities often have special demands made upon their time.
They frequently find themselves, especially in units and colleges in
which they are not well represented, with large numbers of advisees at
both the graduate and undergraduate levels, numerous requests for
service from the community, and myriad invitations to serve on unit,
college and University committees. Women and minorities are more likely
to be assigned heavier committee and student advising responsibilities
than their Caucasian men counterparts. A unit administrator can be of
great influence in alleviating this problem by consulting on a regular
basis with women and minorities to assess the demands being made on them
and by being mindful of those demands when determining teaching loads
and academic advising and committee assignments. If a faculty member has
several opportunities for committee service, the unit administrator can
help set priorities for deciding which committee is important to join.
The unit administrator may wish to protect the faculty member by helping
her/him avoid serving on a low priority committee.

It is difficult for a woman or a minority member of the faculty to
refuse the demands for service from the University and the community or
to turn away students who are at their office door looking for an
adviser, especially when those students are experiencing the same
obstacles and frustrations that the faculty member felt at an earlier
stage in his or her career. Often it is one\'s research efforts that get
short shrift. While the role of scholarship and the standards by which
it is evaluated must be the same for all faculty, attention should be
given to providing sufficient time for women and minorities who have
heavy advising and service commitments to pursue their research
activities. A faculty member who has a heavy service and advising
assignment can be compensated with a lighter teaching assignment to
allow time for research.

One of the most valuable tools for encouraging scholarship, especially
among junior faculty, is to free such individuals from the daily
responsibilities of teaching, advising, and service for one semester and
to allow them to pursue their research in an uninterrupted fashion and
at full pay. Several colleges provide funds through the academic unit
for one semester of release time from teaching and other duties for all
probationary faculty prior to the end of their first probationary
period. In addition, some colleges provide a summer stipend for tenure
system faculty during their probationary period to allow them to pursue
their research interests either on or off campus.

The All-University Research Initiation Grants (AURIG) are available on a
competitive basis to all faculty. AURIG is administered by the Office of
the Vice President for Research and Graduate Studies (355-2186). The
maximum level of funding is \$10,000 and AURIG can be used by a new
faculty member to initiate a research project which has potential for
future extramural funding.

Some colleges have limited funds available on a competitive basis to
assist faculty members with international travel for several purposes
(e.g., participation in international conferences or lecturing at
universities and institutes). Several funding agencies such as NATO,
NSF, and NIH provide competitive funds for international travel. The
Special Foreign Travel Fund (SFTF) is administered by the Dean of
International Studies and Programs (355-2350). SFTF is a matching fund
which can supplement unit or college international travel funds as a
last resort.

An important function of the Affirmative Action Program at Michigan
State University is to provide faculty diversification within each unit.
Giving all faculty members of a unit identical job assignments helps
defeat the goal of faculty diversification. It is expected that assigned
responsibilities will vary from person to person in relation to
percentage effort for teaching, research and public service. Faculty
members should be evaluated on how well they accomplish their assigned
responsibilities.

In evaluating scholarship the same high standards must be applied to all
faculty, regardless of their gender, race, ethnic origin, religion, age,
physical condition, etc. The scholarship of those from diverse
backgrounds, however, may be in areas unfamiliar to the majority of the
faculty in a unit. In such cases,care should be taken to solicit
evaluations from individuals, both internal and external, who have
expertise in a particular specialty. Elitist attitudes which tend to
diminish the significance of scholarship in Black studies, ethnic
studies, or women\'s studies should be assiduously avoided.

There are several activities which units and colleges may wish to add to
their current efforts for the retention and development of women and
minorities.

::: {xmlns=""}
1.  Colleges may, on a partnership basis, seek funding when necessary
    and appropriate for proposals to improve retention of
    underrepresented group faculty members. Faculty mentoring and
    sponsorship initiatives, research leaves and facilitation,
    well-developed tenure system appointment extension programs, and
    other creative means to ensure retention will be encouraged.
2.  The colleges, in partnership with the Office of the Provost, will
    continue intensified efforts to retain current underrepresented
    group faculty in the face of external recruiting efforts by peer
    institutions. Deans, chairpersons, and directors should be alert to
    external recruiting efforts and should draw the attention of the
    Provost to cases where the Office of the Provost might intervene.
3.  The Office of the Provost will actively encourage the nomination of
    outstanding senior underrepresented group faculty for University
    Distinguished Professorships and other special honors so that senior
    underrepresented group faculty receive visible recognition for their
    excellence. Just as in recruitment, care should be taken to ensure
    that complete dossiers are presented and that they are scrutinized
    fairly so that people with both traditional and non-traditional
    evidences of excellent records are given opportunities for these
    awards.
4.  College deans and unit administrators should examine on an annual
    basis the dossiers of all probationary tenure system faculty who
    have been rejected at the end of their probationary period. Review
    of such data would assist one to identify the problems in retaining
    women and minorities and, ultimately, serve as a basis for
    development of programs for untenured women and minorities.
5.  Rewarding through merit pay the work of all faculty in mentoring,
    advising, and recruiting students, as well as their community
    service, would go far in fostering salary equity and job
    satisfaction. Furthermore, since these activities support the
    general mission of the University, they should be documented,
    evaluated, and if appropriate, rewarded by professional advancement.
6.  Develop a college and unit reading shelf for publications concerned
    with women and minorities in academe to increase the faculty\'s
    understanding of affirmative action issues. Subscriptions to
    journals such as \"On Campus with Women\" (Project on the Status and
    Education of Women, Association of American Colleges, 1818 R Street,
    N.W., Washington, D.C. 20009), \"Nuestro Magazine for Latinos\" (461
    Park Avenue S., New York, NY 10016), \"Black Issues in Higher
    Education\" (Cox, Matthews & Associates, Inc., 4002 University
    Drive, Fairfax, VA 22030), and \"Equal Opportunity in Higher
    Education\" (Capitol Publications, Business and Education Division,
    1300 N. 17th St., P. O. Box 9672, Arlington, VA 22209) will help to
    keep faculty informed on issues confronting women and minorities.
7.  Unit administrators and deans should work in close consort with the
    Office of the Provost and the Office of Inclusion and Intercultural
    Initiatives in developing specific affirmative action goals for
    their units and in creating strategies for the retention and
    promotion of women and minorities.
8.  Deans may wish to ensure that at least one woman or minority junior
    faculty member is on their Advisory Committee to provide information
    on the concerns and needs of these groups.
9.  In addition to periodic discussions with women and minority faculty,
    a unit administrator or dean may want to conduct exit interviews to
    enhance her or his understanding of the job satisfaction, work
    experience, and unique problems of women and minorities.
10. Reward faculty who develop new courses or host conferences and
    symposia on women and minority topics for their efforts to increase
    the richness of our instructional offerings and to raise the
    consciousness of our faculty and students.

[Back to the Handbook for Faculty Searches with Special Reference to
Affirmative
Action](https://hr.msu.edu/policies-procedures/faculty-academic-staff/affirmative-action/index.html)
:::
:::

[©](http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/10?skin=oucampus&account=msuhr&site=Home&action=de&path=/policies-procedures/faculty-academic-staff/affirmative-action/AAappendixA.pcf)
