---
title: |
    6.2 Advertising and Enlarging the Pool of Applicants - Affirmative
    Action Searches
---

::: {#body}
Affirmative Action

**6.2 Advertising and Enlarging the Pool of Applicants - Affirmative
Action Searches**

::: {xmlns=""}
In the search process, it is most important to create a broad and
diverse pool of applicants. One often hears the remark that the
availability of women or minorities in a specific discipline is meager
or even nonexistent. While some fields do not have large numbers of
women and minorities, there is no field in which they are totally
unrepresented. Advertising a position only in traditional publications
frequently results in creating only a traditional applicant pool. The
committee should publicize the position in a manner that will bring it
to the attention of women and minorities, and it should seek actively to
identify qualified applicants from those groups.
:::

All academic vacancies must be posted unless a waiver of posting and
search requirements is approved. (See \"[Waiver of Affirmative Action
Hiring Procedure\" in the \"Academic Hiring
Manual](/policies-procedures/faculty-academic-staff/academic-hiring-manual/waivers_use.html "Academic Hiring - use of waivers")\".)
Even though unit faculty members may be supportive of an internal
candidate\'s desire to change from a fixed term appointment to a tenure
system appointment, a national search for the position must take place,
unless a previous search for the fixed term appointment referenced
\"position tenurable.\"

After the Provost approves the \"Academic Position Request,\" there are
several standard steps in advertising a position:

::: {xmlns=""}
-   All academic vacancies must be posted locally. Tenure system and
    other continuing appointment system positions must be advertised
    nationally or within the geographical area customary for the
    appointment. The application deadline date for all postings must be
    at least two weeks after the posting date. Allow ample time (usually
    at least one month) for the period between posting and hiring.
-   The Office of Academic Human Resources fulfills the obligation to
    post locally by posting on the Internet and with MSU Career Services
    and Placement.
-   For all other advertising of approved positions, including
    additional local advertising or national or international
    advertising, the unit may deal directly with publications,
    associations, etc., or may send a purchase requisition for
    advertising and a copy of the advertisement with the academic
    position number directly to the Purchasing Department. All
    advertisements must conform to the requirements listed under
    \"[Writing the Position
    Description](/policies-procedures/faculty-academic-staff/affirmative-action/writing_position_description.html "Writing the position description")\"
    and \"[Writing the
    Advertisement](/policies-procedures/faculty-academic-staff/affirmative-action/writing_ads.html "Writing the Advertisement")\".
-   Tenure system and administrative positions may be advertised in the
    \"Chronicle of Higher Education,\" (1255 23rd St. NW, Suite 700,
    Washington, D.C. 20037, Telephone (202)466-1000, Fax (202)296-2692
    and in appropriate professional publications and job listings. See
    \"[Affirmative Action
    Publications](https://www.hr.msu.edu/policies-procedures/faculty-academic-staff/affirmative-action/AApublications.html "Affirmative Action Publications")\"
    and \"[Affirmative Action
    Organizations](https://www.hr.msu.edu/policies-procedures/faculty-academic-staff/affirmative-action/AAorgs.html "Affirmative Action Organizations")\".
-   Circulate the position advertisement to women and minority faculty,
    administrators, and organizations at MSU.
-   Send the position description to appropriate units and faculty at
    other institutions.
:::

To enlarge the pool of applicants, however, a search committee should
advertise in diverse publications and contact a variety of national,
regional and local professional and social organizations. Most of the
publications listed in \"Affirmative Action Publications\" and
organizations listed in \"Affirmative Action Organizations\" advertise
faculty and administrative positions for women and minorities; many of
the organizations have a women\'s or minority office. Advertising in
appropriate publications and contacting relevant organizations will not
only help to enlarge the pool of applicants but will also convey the
commitment of a unit and the University to recruit women and minorities.

In addition, the MSU Libraries house many materials that can be of
assistance to search committees in creating a diverse pool of
applicants. For example, the library subscribes to periodicals that
advertise faculty and administrative positions and purchases directories
of professional associations and organizations that may be sources for
recruitment, particularly for women and minorities. Several library
public service areas and publications that may be utilized by search
committees in their work are described in \"MSU Library Affirmative
Action Resources\" .

In addition to advertising a position in a variety of publications,
making direct contact with academic units at other universities,
professional organizations, and colleagues is an effective method of
expanding the search. The informal, \"word-of-mouth\" approach to
recruitment is one of the most successful ways of identifying
candidates. The following activities are recommended to unit
administrators and search committees for specific searches, as well as
for possible ongoing endeavors:

::: {xmlns=""}
1.  Encourage faculty who will be attending professional conferences or
    who will be delivering papers at other universities to combine their
    visits with recruitment efforts for present and future positions.
    They may provide institutions and potential applicants with general
    information about Michigan State; with affirmative action data,
    which may be obtained from the Office of Inclusion and Intercultural
    Initiatives; as well as with information on specific job openings.
    They should also be encouraged to solicit curricula vitae from
    promising candidates.
2.  Contact women and minorities who have received significant grants or
    professional recognition and ask for the names of promising women
    and minority scholars.
3.  Use a personal approach in recruiting applicants. Often outstanding
    potential candidates do not apply for advertised positions; they
    must be approached by a member of the search committee. If an
    individual declines a nomination or does not respond to your letter
    of inquiry, you should telephone the person to determine if her/his
    reasons for declining can be addressed and resolved. A telephone
    call will help demonstrate to a potential candidate that Michigan
    State is serious about affirmative action and equal employment
    opportunity.
4.  Consider for the position women and minorities who have held or hold
    part-time or fixed term positions in your unit or in the University.
5.  Inform the National Urban League and the national offices of Black
    sororities and fraternities of available possible positions.
6.  Inform alumni publications at universities where women and
    minorities are well represented of available positions.
7.  Consider contacting the affirmative action office at other
    universities, for some of them maintain lists of women and
    minorities at their institutions who are looking for academic
    employment elsewhere.
8.  Establish a working relationship with similar units at institutions
    with substantial numbers of women and minorities. This will allow a
    host of mutually beneficial activities to be undertaken, including a
    sharing of research facilities and exchanges of faculty. Teaching
    for a semester, delivering a paper, or simply making an informal
    visit, will allow Michigan State faculty to discuss job openings
    with the faculty and students at these institutions.
9.  Request names of potential candidates from women and minorities at
    Michigan State, as well as at institutions with strong graduate
    programs in your discipline, for women and minorities are often part
    of an informal network. These names may be put into a card file or
    data bank along with the names of applicants from previous searches
    who either did not accept an offer at Michigan State or who now may
    qualify for a position in your unit. The card file or data bank
    should be continuously updated with new names provided by women,
    minorities, students, and alumni from Michigan State and other
    institutions.
10. Request names of potential candidates from women and minority
    organizations at Michigan State University such as Womens\' Advisory
    Committee to the Provost, Black Faculty and Administrators
    Association, Asian and Pacific American Faculty/Staff Association,
    Chicano/Latino Association, and EAGLE \-- an Association of American
    Indian Faculty and Staff.
11. Request women and minority caucuses within relevant professional and
    academic associations to provide names of potential candidates. It
    would be beneficial to maintain ongoing communication with these
    caucuses on a broad range of issues.
12. Keep national higher education associations informed of present and
    possible future positions. These associations have their own network
    for publicizing job openings. In addition, a number of such
    associations contain special interest groups (e.g., the American
    Educational Research Association has Hispanic and Black caucuses).
13. Maintain ongoing contact with professional organizations,
    associations, and agencies that have a job referral service.
14. Consider the pros and cons of hiring or consulting with recent women
    and minority graduates from your unit. This activity begins with
    recruiting outstanding women and minority doctoral students and
    retaining them in Michigan State\'s graduate programs. Establishing
    postdoctoral programs for members of these groups both from Michigan
    State and other institutions would allow them to gain experience and
    to grow professionally.
15. Maintain close contact with women and minority graduates of Michigan
    State and encourage them to recommend this university to their
    students for both graduate training and for faculty positions.
16. Invite women and minority scholars from other institutions to
    participate in unit-sponsored symposia and visiting professorships.
    A one-year visiting professorship to replace a faculty member who is
    on leave will not only assist a unit in meeting its instructional
    responsibilities but will also strengthen the link between the unit
    at Michigan State and a similar unit at another institution.
17. Maintain contact with women and minorities whom your unit has
    unsuccessfully attempted to recruit for graduate study at MSU. As
    they complete their graduate studies at other universities, they may
    become candidates for a faculty position at MSU. They may also have
    women and minorities among their colleagues who are potential
    candidates for your open position.
18. If your unit is developing plans to propose the establishment of an
    endowed chair, it may wish to consider the possibility of recruiting
    an eminent scholar whose interests lie in women\'s and/or minority
    studies. This may, in turn, attract other women and minorities to
    your unit.
19. If women and minorities are underrepresented nationally in your
    discipline, efforts should be taken to aggressively recruit women
    and minority undergraduate and graduate students into that field so
    that the pool of candidates will be greater in the future. In
    addition, a national approach to the problem should be undertaken. A
    unit may wish to lobby in appropriate professional organizations and
    within confederations such as the Committee on Institutional
    Cooperation to develop a national strategy to recruit women and
    minority students into the field.
20. Statements on a unit\'s commitment to affirmative action and
    discussions of affirmative action issues within a discipline may be
    published in unit newsletters or brochures that are sent to
    constituent groups and alumni, thereby informing them of a unit\'s
    affirmative action goals and enlisting their assistance.

\
[Back to the Handbook for Faculty Searches with Special Reference to
Affirmative
Action](https://hr.msu.edu/policies-procedures/faculty-academic-staff/affirmative-action/index.html)
:::
:::

[©](http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/10?skin=oucampus&account=msuhr&site=Home&action=de&path=/policies-procedures/faculty-academic-staff/affirmative-action/advertising.pcf)
