Spartan Life Student Handbook - The Family Resource Center (FRC)

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
        -   Diversity and Multicultural Programs
        -   Community Groups
            -   Adult Students
            -   International Students
            -   Persons With Disabilities
            -   Lesbian, Bisexual, Gay, and Transgender Resource Center
            -   The Family Resource Center (FRC)
            -   Reflection Room
            -   Veterans
            -   The Women's Council
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Services for Community Groups

> Community Groups

> The Family Resource Center (FRC)

[Click here to print this page]



THE FAMILY RESOURCE CENTER (FRC)


THE FAMILY RESOURCE CENTER (FRC) coordinates information, resources and
University initiatives to assist students with children and students
managing the care of dependent elders. Students may contact the FRC
coordinator at (517) 432-3745 or the website: _www.frc.msu.edu_, for
information about programs and services, including the following:

-   A resource and referral service to help student-parents find
    childcare;

-   An emergency backup childcare service offered at a licensed home and
    Spartan Child Development Center. The service offers five days of
    childcare per year per child, at no charge to parents, to meet
    back-up and emergency childcare needs;

-   Financial assistance which may be available through such sources as
    local scholarship programs, the MSU Office of Financial Aid, and
    federal and state government programs;

-   Student-parent support and parenting classes;

-   Childcare offered at Spartan Child Development Center located in the
    Spartan Village apartment complex. The center attempts to meet the
    childcare needs of student-parents with a sliding pay scale and
    varied scheduling options. The Center is licensed for children aged
    two weeks to six years. Call (517) 353-5154 for enrollment
    information;

-   Sick-child care is available for mildly ill children in their homes.
    MSU subsidizes 70% of the cost for Home Instead Aides to provide
    in-home care.

-   Free pre-finals childcare available the week before finals during
    fall and spring semesters. Free childcare allows students time to
    study for final exams.

-   Assistance with elder care issues.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
