---
title: 'Summary of Academic Responsibilities - Faculty Policies'
---

::: {#body}
Faculty Policies and Procedures

**Summary of Academic Responsibilities - Faculty Policies**

::: {xmlns=""}
**Summary of ACADEMIC RESPONSIBILITIES for FACULTY**
:::

*Source: Academic Programs, MSU\'s catalog of all academic programs and
selected academic policies and procedures*

**CODE OF TEACHING RESPONSIBILITY**

The teaching responsibilities of instructional staff members (herein
referred to as instructors) are among those many areas of university
life which have for generations been a part of the unwritten code of
academicians. The provisions of such a code are so reasonable to learned
and humane individuals that it may appear redundant or unnecessary to
state them. However, the University conceives them to be so important
that performance by instructors in meeting the provisions of this code
shall be taken into consideration in determining salary increases,
tenure, and promotion.

1\. Instructors are responsible for ensuring that the content of the
courses they teach is consistent with the course descriptions approved
by the University Committee on Curriculum and the Academic Council.
Instructors are also responsible for stating clearly to students in
their classes the instructional objectives of each course at the
beginning of each semester. It is expected that the class activities
will be directed toward the fulfillment of these objectives and that the
bases upon which student performance is evaluated will be consistent
with these objectives. The University prohibits students from
commercializing their notes of lectures and University-provided class
materials, without the written consent of the instructor. Instructors
may allow commercialization by including express permission in the
course syllabus or other written statement distributed to all students
in the class.

2\. Instructors are responsible for informing students in their classes
of the methods to be used in determining final course grades and of any
special requirements of attendance which differ from the attendance
policy of the University. Course grades will be determined by the
instructor\'s assessment of each student\'s individual performance,
judged by standards of academic achievement.

3\. Examinations and other assignments submitted for grading during the
semester should be returned with sufficient promptness to enhance the
learning experience. Unclaimed final examination answers will be
retained by the instructor for at least one semester so that they may be
reviewed by students who desire to do so. Examination questions are an
integral part of course materials, and the decision whether to allow
their retention by students is the responsibility of the instructor.
Term papers and other comparable projects are the property of students
who prepare them. They should be returned to students who ask for them
and those which are not returned should be retained by the instructor
for at least one semester. Instructors who desire to retain a copy for
their own files should state their intention to do so in order that
students may prepare additional copies for themselves.

4\. Instructors are expected to meet their classes regularly and at
scheduled times. Instructors will notify their units if they are to be
absent and if appropriate arrangements have not been made so that
suitable action may be taken by the unit if necessary.

5\. Instructors of courses in which assistants are authorized to perform
teaching or grading functions shall be responsible for acquainting such
individuals with the provisions of this Code and for monitoring their
compliance.

6\. Instructors are expected to schedule and keep a reasonable number of
office hours for student conferences. Office hours should be scheduled
at times convenient to both students and instructors with the additional
option of prearranged appointments for students when there are schedule
conflicts. The minimum number of office hours is to be agreed upon by
the teaching unit, and specific times should be a matter of common
knowledge.

7\. Instructors who are responsible for academic advising are expected to
be in their offices at appropriate hours during advising and enrollment
periods. Arrangements shall also be made for advising during
registration.

**Hearing Procedures**

1\. Students may register complaints regarding an instructor\'s failure
to comply with the provisions of the Code of Teaching Responsibility
directly with that instructor.

2\. Students may also take complaints directly to teaching units\' chief
administrators or their designates. If those persons are unable to
resolve matters to the student\'s satisfaction, they are obligated to
transmit written complaints to unit committees charged with hearing such
complaints. A copy of any complaint transmitted shall be sent to the
instructor. A written report of the action or recommendation of such
groups will be forwarded to the student and to the instructor, normally
within ten working days of the receipt of the complaint.

3\. Complaints coming to the University Ombudsperson will be reported, in
writing, to chief administrators of the teaching units involved when in
the Ombudsperson\'s opinion a hearing appears necessary. It will be the
responsibility of chief administrators or their designates to inform the
instructor and to refer such unresolved complaints to the unit
committees charged with hearing such complaints. A written report of the
action or recommendation of such groups will be forwarded to the
University Ombudsperson, to the student, and to the instructor, normally
within ten working days of the receipt of the complaint.

4\. Students wishing to appeal a teaching unit action or recommendation
may do so as outlined in Academic Freedom for Students at Michigan State
University, Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities, or Medical
Student Rights and Responsibilities. Such complaints must normally be
initiated no later than the middle of the semester following the one
wherein alleged violations occurred. Exceptions shall be made in cases
where the involved instructor or student is absent from the University
during the semester following the one wherein alleged violations
occurred.

**STUDENT RECORDS AND THE FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATIONAL RIGHTS AND PRIVACY
ACT (FERPA)**

Michigan State University complies fully with the letter and spirit of
the Federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) which
governs access to, and confidentiality of, student records.

As a means of complying with this act, the University has developed
detailed Guidelines Governing Privacy and Release of Student Records.
These Guidelines are reproduced below.

**GUIDELINES GOVERNING PRIVACY AND RELEASE OF STUDENT RECORDS**

A. INTRODUCTION\
Michigan State University recognizes the importance of maintaining
individual student records to preserve authentic evidence of the events
and actions which document the student\'s educational progress; and
which facilitate the intelligent and purposeful guidance necessary to
the achievement of the educational goals of the student in a university
setting.

The release and disclosure of student records maintained by the
University are, in large measure, governed by state and federal laws and
by University policy. It is the purpose of these guidelines to provide
reasonable interpretations of the laws as presently stated and to
protect the student\'s right of privacy. These guidelines, then, have a
two-fold purpose.

1\. To protect a student\'s right to the privacy of information which the
University has in its possession concerning the student, and

2\. To provide reasonable guidelines for release or disclosure of such
information as is required by federal and state laws and as necessary
for the effective functioning of the campus community.

B. DIRECTORY INFORMATION

1\. The following personally identifiable student information has been
designated as directory information and may be included in publications
or disclosed upon request without the prior consent of the student:

::: {xmlns="" style="margin-left: 30px;"}
-   -   name of student,
    -   the student\'s local address (if listed),
    -   the student\'s local phone (if listed),
    -   PILOT email address (if listed),
    -   the student\'s permanent address (if listed),
    -   the student\'s permanent telephone number (if listed),
    -   current enrollment status or dates of attendance,
    -   program level (undergraduate, graduate, professional),
    -   class (freshman, sophomore, junior, senior, etc.),
    -   major,
    -   current term candidacy for degree and/or teacher certification,
    -   employment status as a graduate teaching or research assistant,
        office address and office phone number,
    -   information pertaining to awards and honors achievements,
    -   degree(s) earned from Michigan State University and effective
        date(s),
    -   State of Michigan certification for teaching and effective
        date(s), participation in officially recognized University
        activities and sports, including weight and height of athletic
        team members,
    -   the registration documents of student organizations which
        contain the names and addresses of the officers and the
        statement of purpose of the organization. These documents are
        available in the Student Activities Office, 101 Student Services
        Building.
:::

2\. Pursuant to federal law, a student has the right to refuse to permit
the inclusion as directory information of any or all of the personally
identifiable information enumerated above. Questions concerning general
disclosure should be addressed to the Office of the Registrar, Room 150
Administration Building. Exclusion from printed directories, programs,
and public lists should be addressed to the administrative units
responsible for publication. Directions for printed MSU Student
Directory exclusion may be found in the Student Directory section.

C. CONFIDENTIAL RECORDS

All personally identifiable information not covered by Part B above is
confidential and shall only be disclosed by the University as provided
herein. That information includes, but is not limited to, the following:

::: {xmlns=""}
-   academic evaluations and grades,
-   counseling and advising records,
-   disciplinary records,
-   financial aid records,
-   letters of recommendation,
-   medical and psychological records,
-   police records,
-   transcripts and other academic records,
-   scores on tests required for new students,
-   billing and fee payment record.
:::

D. PRACTICE GOVERNING DISCLOSURE

1\. Disclosure of Directory Information

a\. Inquiries by phone or in person for directory information listed in
Part B will be honored as their nature and the time available permit.
The Student Directory already supplies most of the basic data and
requests will be referred to this whenever feasible.

b\. Requests which require extensive work and interfere with regular
operations or requests requiring data in specific formats (mailing
labels, for example) may be denied or a charge for the service may be
levied.

c\. Requests in support of commercial promotion or sales campaigns will
be denied as constituting inappropriate use of University records.

2\. Disclosure of Confidential Information to the Individual Upon proper
identification, a currently enrolled or a former student has the right
to inspect and review official records, files, and data directly related
to the student as a student.

Applicants for admission have the right to a review by and with an
admissions officer of records, files, and data submitted for the
purposes of admission.

Those denied admission have the right to a review of the accuracy of
their records, files, and data submitted for purposes of admission. This
right must be exercised within six months of the date of denial of
admission. The decision to admit or deny admission is, however, a
composite professional decision not subject to review.

Student access to records shall be pursuant to procedures established
for the granting of requests under this section. Appropriate requests
shall be granted within a reasonable period of time, but in no case
later than forty-five (45) days from the date of request.

For the purpose of this section, the term \"official records, files, and
data\" shall include that material on students pertaining to their
status as students which is held by any unit or department and which is
intended for University use, or (with restrictions as indicated below)
to parties outside the University system. As such, official records,
files, and data must be distinguished from \"non-official\" records.

The guiding principle here involves the content and purpose of the
records as well as the nature of the relationship between the student
and the University or member of its staff. If the records involve or
affect the status of the individual as a student in the University, the
records are official and the student shall have access to them.

Non-official records are of three kinds:

a\. Those maintained by a physician, psychiatrist, psychologist, or other
recognized professional or para-professional acting in a professional or
para-professional capacity, and which are created, maintained, or used
only in connection with the provision of treatment to the student, and
are not available to anyone other than persons providing such
treatment-provided, however, that such records can be personally
reviewed by a physician or other appropriate professional of the
student\'s choice. The student has access only through the practitioner.
Release or disclosure of these records shall be covered by state statute
and codes of professional ethics.

b\. Notes or personal records kept by faculty members or by supervisory
and administrative personnel. These records assist University personnel
or individuals in assisting students.  These records are not available
to others.

c\. Records which relate to the student as an individual or citizen. If
the student as a citizen has contact with a law enforcement agency, any
records generated by this contact shall be governed by state law. Since
files are maintained by incident, a file may contain several names
including students and non-students. In Michigan such records are not
accessible to the individual until a complaint has been signed and a
warrant issued. Should the Prosecutor not issue a warrant, but refer a
report back to the University for disciplinary action, the student shall
have access to this record.

In addition to the above, students shall not have access to letters of
recommendation or statements of evaluation obtained or prepared before
January 1, 1975. A student may be allowed, but not required, to waive
his/her right of access to letters of recommendation received after
January 1, 1975. A student who wishes to waive right of access to
letters of recommendation must so indicate by filing a waiver form to be
placed with his/her records or by supplying the letter writer with a
signed statement of waiver to be attached to the letter. It will be the
student\'s responsibility to inform the letter writer of this waiver. If
a student asks to review his/her records, letters of recommendation
received before January 1,1975 shall be extracted from the folder and
the student shall be told this is being done to provide the writer an
opportunity to acquiesce on access to the letter or withdraw it. If the
student objects, it should be pointed out that (1) the University is
permitted forty-five (45) days to respond to such requests, and (2) both
the University and the student will suffer if the substance of
recommendations, which the writer viewed as confidential, becomes the
subject of discussion between the writer and student.

If a student is denied access to his/her record, he/she should appeal to
the individual responsible for the direction or coordination of the unit
maintaining the records. This individual, if he/she does not reverse the
denial, must assert it in writing including the rationale for the denial
within ten (10) days of the appeal. The student or the administrator may
then request from the Committee on Release of Confidential Information
an interpretation of the rules and policies involved. If the Committee
determines that the record in question is an academic record covered by
these guidelines, the student shall then be granted access to the
record.

A student, former student, or applicant shall be entitled to an
explanation of any information contained in official records, files, and
data directly related to the student and shall have the opportunity for
a hearing to challenge the content of such records to ensure that they
are not inaccurate or misleading, or otherwise in violation of privacy
or other rights of the student, and to provide an opportunity for the
correction or deletion of any such inaccurate, misleading, or otherwise
inappropriate data. The substantive judgments of a faculty member about
a student\'s work, expressed in grades assigned in a course and other
evaluations of a student\'s work, are not within the scope of such
hearings. Neither are the actions of admissions or scholarship officers
or committees. Actions of duly established University judicial boards
are subject to review or appeal only as already prescribed by policy
statements.

If a student contests the factual accuracy of his/her record and is
unable to obtain a correction, he/she may request a hearing. The request
should be addressed in writing to the Chairperson of the Committee on
Release of Confidential Information via the Office of the Provost. The
Committee will assign a hearing officer to conduct the hearing according
to procedures that reflect fundamental fairness. The hearing shall be
limited to the factual accuracy of the record. The student is entitled
(at his/her own expense) to the presence of an adviser at the hearing.
The University shall designate a representative to represent the
interests of the University. The hearing officer\'s report and
recommendation will be sent by the Chairperson of the Committee, to the
student and to the University official responsible for the records.
Within 10 days of transmission of the hearing officer\'s decision to the
parties, either party may enter an appeal in writing to the Provost. In
the event of such an appeal, the Provost or his or her designee shall
make a final determination without delay. Records of the hearing, the
report of the hearing officer, and any determination stemming from an
appeal will be retained in the files of the Committee. If, as a result
of these processes, it is determined that the record is factually
incorrect, the record shall be amended by the responsible official in
accord with the final determination. The inaccurate material should
either be destroyed (if this does not violate audit responsibilities for
record keeping) or so annotated as to indicate the nature and source of
error and date of correction. If the student is dissatisfied with the
final determination, he/she may then appeal to the appropriate federal
agency. Any actions or decisions based upon the erroneous entries shall
be reviewed at the decision source.

3\. Disclosure of Confidential Information to Third Parties

The student and the University office in which rests the primary
obligation for maintenance of his/her records share a common concern,
for accuracy and confidentiality of records. In meeting their public
responsibilities, University officials will be faced with various
circumstances in which a decision must be made about release of
information to third parties either within or outside the University.
The policies in this section cover these contingencies.

a\. Disclosure to individuals and public or private agencies external to
the University:

Confidential information may be released or disclosed to individuals or
agencies only with the prior written consent of the student, unless the
release or disclosure is pursuant to Section 3b. below. See also Section
3d.

Written consent on the part of the student must be provided prior to the
release of the requested information and shall (1) identify the
individual, agency, or classes of individuals or agencies to whom the
information is to be made available; and (2) specify the records to be
released.

b\. Disclosure of confidential information without prior consent of the
student:

Information otherwise confidential and requiring a student\'s consent
may be released without such consent pursuant to the conditions listed
below. The practice shall be construed narrowly to protect the
student\'s right to confidentiality.

\(1) Disclosure to school officials with legitimate educational interests
(For the purposes of these Guidelines, \"school officials\" include:
University administrators, advisers, managerial and supervisory staff,
and faculty; and persons or companies with whom the University has
contracted to provide or administer student insurance programs or
student account billing and collection services.):

All confidential information shall be disclosed only on a NEED TO KNOW
BASIS.  That is, an official requesting information must have a
legitimate need to have the requested information for the effective
functioning of the position or office. The dean of each college and his
or her administrative staff have access to all official records on
students in that college. Otherwise, determinations as to whether the
need to know requirement has been satisfied shall be made by the head
administrator of the unit retaining the information or by the President
of the University.

University administrators, advisers, managerial and supervisory staff,
and faculty whose regular responsibilities require the collection,
receipt, or utilization of information shall be responsible for its
release and disclosure pursuant to the provisions of this policy and
specifically the preceding paragraph. To assure accuracy, maintain
records on release of information and avoid misunderstandings, release
or disclosure shall be made by the office which has primary
responsibility for maintaining the information.

Organizations recognized by the University and sponsored by faculty
members, which have as their principal purpose the recognition of
student accomplishment through proffer of membership or by an award,
shall have access, through the faculty sponsor, to such student records
as may be required to select students to be thus recognized. (As a
requirement for this access, the organization must provide a statement
of the criteria and rules, policies or standards applied in the
selection process. This statement will make it possible for any student
to review the criteria and submit evidence on a proficiency or
accomplishment not part of his or her University record; for example,
proficiency in a foreign language.) This information is available in the
Student Activities Department, Office of the Vice President for Student
Affairs and Services.

\(2) Disclosure pursuant to judicial order: Confidential information
shall be released if properly subpoenaed pursuant to a judicial,
legislative, or administrative proceeding. In all such cases the student
shall be notified of the order in advance of compliance or evidence of a
reasonable attempt to do so should be available.

\(3) Disclosure pursuant to requests for financial aid: Appropriate
student records may be disclosed without the student\'s prior consent in
connection with the student\'s application for, or receipt of, financial
aid.

\(4) Disclosure to federal and state authorities: This policy shall not
preclude access to student records by authorized federal and state
officials as required by the audit and evaluation of federally supported
education programs or in connection with the enforcement of federal
legal requirements which relate to such programs. Except when collection
of personally identifiable data is specifically authorized by federal
law, any data collected with respect to individual students shall not
include information (including Social Security numbers) which would
permit the personal identification of such students after the data so
obtained have been collected.

\(5) Disclosure to accrediting and professional associations: Access to
student records or information therefore is authorized for officially
designated representatives of accrediting and other professional
organizations with which the University or segment thereof is affiliated
but only to the extent necessary to fulfill the obligation of that
affiliation.

\(6) Disclosure as necessary to effect collection of financial
obligations to the University.

\(7) Disclosure to attorneys representing the University of any data on a
student deemed necessary for the defense of the University when that
student has filed suit against the University.

\(8) Disclosure pursuant to the University\'s obligations to support
study and research undertaken to better understand and to improve its
own educational programs or those of institutions and agencies with
which the University cooperates. Requests for access to information for
research must be presented to and authorized by the University Committee
on Release of Confidential Information. Such requests, when deemed
appropriate, should be fulfilled, if possible, by provision of data from
which all identification has been removed. If the research requires
release of information by name, the Committee will require assurance
that the data supplied will be treated in full confidence and either
returned or destroyed as soon as it has served its research purposes.

\(9) Disclosure to officials of another school, school system, or
institution of post secondary education where the student seeks or
intends to enroll.

c\. Conditions of disclosure:

Confidential information disclosed to a third party pursuant to this
policy shall be subject to the condition that the third party will not
permit any other party to have access to the information without prior
approval from the primary University source. (See also b.(1), second
paragraph.) This permits the University to reevaluate the proposed use
and deny or refer it to the student for written consent as required by
Section 438 of the General Education Provisions Act. (Title IV of Pub.
L90-247 as amended.)

d\. Notation of access:

Except with regard to the regular and normal use of student records by
University officials on a legitimate need to know basis, all persons,
agencies, or organizations desiring regular access to the records of a
student pursuant to Section D., 3a, of this policy shall be required to
sign a statement to be kept permanently with the file of the student
indicating specifically the legitimate educational or other interest in
seeking this information. Such a statement and subsequent notations of
access should be available solely to the student and to University
officials responsible for record maintenance as a means of auditing the
operation of the system. Further, a notation shall be made of all
information released under Section D., 3a.

4\. Circumstances Not Covered by this Statement.  If circumstances arise
involving release of confidential information which are not clearly
covered by this policy statement, the President, the Provost, the Dean
of the college, or the Chairperson of the Committee on Release of
Confidential Information should be contacted for advice, clarification,
or direction.

**ATTENDANCE**

No person is allowed to attend a class unless officially enrolled on a
credit or non-credit basis with the appropriate fees paid. Students who
attend, participate and strive to complete course requirements without
formal enrollment will not receive credit for their work.

There is no all-University regulation requiring class attendance.
However, attendance is an essential and intrinsic element of the
educational process. In any course in which attendance is

necessary to the achievement of a clearly defined set of course
objectives, it may be a valid consideration in determining the
student\'s grade. It is the responsibility of the instructor to define
the policy for attendance at the beginning of the course.

CLASS NOTES AND UNIVERSITY SUPPLIED MATERIALS. As a condition of
continued course enrollment and allowed class attendance, a student will
refrain from commercializing notes of class lectures and
University-supplied materials, by direct sale or by contract with a
third party or otherwise, without the express written permission of the
instructor. Students may be removed from being enrolled in a class only
after a hearing in the department or school, as described in the
Academic Freedom for Students at Michigan State University, Article 2.4.

DROP FOR NON-ATTENDANCE. Students may be dropped from a course for
non-attendance by a Dean\'s Drop after the fourth class period, or the
fifth class day of the semester, whichever occurs first.

FIELD TRIPS. Field trips involving absence from classes must be
authorized in advance by the dean of the college in which the course is
given. The cost of field trips which are part of organized courses of
instruction must be borne by the participating students and are
additional to the usual course fees.

**CHANGE OF ENROLLMENT**

Students are expected to complete the courses in which they register. If
a change is necessary, it maybe made only with the appropriate approvals
as explained below.

ADD AND DROP PERIOD. Students may add courses using the enrollment
system through the fifth day of classes. Students may drop courses using
the enrollment system through the middle of the semester.

CHANGE OF OPTION FOR CR-NC (CREDIT-NO CREDIT) GRADING. Choice of the
CR-NC grading system must be made no later than the fifth day of the
semester (or through the first 1/14 of a summer or special session) in
the Office of the Registrar.

CHANGE OF OPTION FOR VISITOR. Choice of enrollment in a credit course as
a visitor on a non-credit basis must be made no later than the fifth day
of the semester (or through the first 1/14 of a summer or special
session) in the Office of the Registrar.

TO ADD A COURSE AFTER THE ADD AND DROP PERIOD. Normally, no course may
be added after the designated period for adding courses. Any add after
this period must be processed beginning with the department offering the
course. Final approval rests with the associate dean of the student\'s
college.

TO DROP A COURSE AFTER THE MIDDLE OF THE SEMESTER. A student may drop
(withdraw from) a course during this period only to correct errors in
enrollment or because of events of catastrophic impact, such as serious
personal illness. To initiate a late drop, the student must obtain a
Late Drop card and signature of approval from the office of the
associate dean of his or her college or the Undergraduate University
Division. An indication of the student\'s grade to date-passing, no
basis for grade, or failing- must then be obtained from the instructor
of the course. The instructor\'s signature is for the purpose of
establishing the validity of the grade as reported on the Late Drop
card, and does not imply approval or disapproval of the drop. The
student then returns the Late Drop card to the appropriate associate
dean for signature and designation of the W(no-grade), N, or 0.0. The W
symbol will be assigned if the instructor has indicated passing or no
basis for grade regardless of the grading system under which the student
is enrolled. If the instructor has indicated failing, the associate dean
will designate N for a student enrolled in a course authorized for P-N
grading; otherwise a grade of 0.0 will be assigned. The associate dean
should retain a photocopy of the form and give the original to the
student to be delivered directly to the Office of the Registrar, Room
150, Administration Building.

Any Undergraduate University Division student-freshman or
sophomore-wishing to drop a course after the middle of the semester must
petition to obtain a Late Drop card at the appropriate

Undergraduate University Division Student Affairs Office. An adviser
will interview the student to determine whether the student\'s reason
for wishing to drop the course is sufficient to issue the Late Drop
card. Issuance of the Late Drop card does not guarantee a drop with a W
(no-grade) symbol assigned to the course.

ADJUSTMENT OF FEES. If the adding or dropping of courses changes the
total number of credits in which the student is enrolled, an adjustment
of fees is made according to the policies for assessment of fees and
refund of fees shown in the section on Refund Policies.

Eligibility for fee adjustments is based on the date the notification of
adding or dropping courses from the department is received in the Office
of the Registrar.

DROPPING ALL COURSES. See the statement on Withdrawal from the
University.

**INDEPENDENT STUDY**

Definition\
At Michigan State University, Independent Study is planned study, highly
individualized, not addressable through any other course format,
proposed in writing by the student on a standard form, accepted for
supervision by a faculty member, and approved by the student\'s academic
adviser and the teaching unit at the beginning of the semester.

Guidelines\
Independent Study should:

::: {xmlns=""}
1.  Consist of work not described in the University catalog in any other
    format;
2.  Be taken under a course number commensurate with the student\'s
    class level, major field, and experience;
3.  Relate to a subject for which the student has adequate preparation;
4.  Be directed by a faculty member with whom there is periodic contact
    and consultation throughout the study;
5.  Not exceed 8 semester hours of credit in a single academic semester;
6.  Not exceed 10 percent of the credits earned in a bachelor\'s
    program;
7.  Be applied for on the form provided by the University, or any
    equivalent Departmental or School or College form;
8.  Be approved on this form before the student enrolls for the course;
    registration should be completed by the end of the period for adding
    courses.
:::

**FINAL EXAMINATION POLICY**

During the final week of each academic semester all courses shall meet
for one 2-hour period at the date and time listed in the Schedule of
Courses. During summer sessions, final examinations are scheduled in the
last class sessions. This period should be used for examination,
discussion, summarizing the course,obtaining student evaluation of the
course instruction, or any other appropriate activity designed to
advance the student\'s education. If an instructor requires a written
report or take-home examination in place of a final examination, it
shall not be due before the final examination period scheduled for that
course. Exceptions to this paragraph may be approved by the department
or school chairperson, or in a college without departments, by the dean.

In the event that a final examination is deemed appropriate by the
instructor, it may not be scheduled at any time other than the date and
hour listed in the Schedule of Courses. Any deviations from the final
examination schedule must be approved by the Undergraduate Committee of
the Assistant Deans Group.

No student should be required to take more than two examinations during
any one day of the final examination period. Students who have more than
two examinations scheduled during one calendar day during the final
examination period may take their class schedules to the Academic
Student Affairs Office in their colleges for assistance in arranging for
an alternate time for one of the three examinations.

The final examination schedule shall be systematically rotated so that
the 2-hour period for each course will be scheduled at a different time
each semester. This will also apply to common final examinations.

Faculty members shall schedule office hours during the final examination
period (or in some other way attempt to make themselves accessible to
their students) as they do in the other weeks of the semester.

Common final examinations are scheduled in certain courses with several
class sections. In case of a conflict in time between such an
examination and a regularly scheduled course examination, the latter has
priority. The department or school giving the common examination must
arrange for a make-up examination.

A student absent from a final examination without a satisfactory
explanation will receive a grade of 0.0 on the numerical system; NC on
the CR-NC system, or N in the case of a course authorized for grading on
the P-N system. Students unable to take a final examination because of
illness or other reason over which they have no control should notify
the associate deans of their colleges immediately.

For information on examinations other than end of the semester, see the
Undergraduate Education and Graduate Education sections of this catalog.

**STUDENT INSTRUCTIONAL RATING SYSTEM (SIRS)**

Preamble

The principal objective of the student instructional rating policy is to
secure information which is indispensable to implementation of the
University\'s policy of providing its students with instruction of the
highest quality. This information is put to two principal uses: (1)
providing instructors and teaching units with an accurate account of
student response to their instructional practices, to the end that
classroom effectiveness be maintained at the highest level of
excellence; and (2) providing teaching units with one kind of
information to be considered in deciding on retention, promotion,
salary, and tenure, to the end that effectiveness in instruction
constitutes an important criterion in evaluating the service to the
University of members of the teaching faculty. In order to accomplish
these objectives more fully, the following procedures were established.

1\. Every teaching unit shall approve one or more common student rating
instruments through its own channels of participation, in accordance
with unit bylaws and customs of collegial decision making. Regardless of
the type of instrument adopted, it must prominently display the
following notation:

The Michigan State University CODE OF TEACHING RESPONSIBILITY holds all
instructors to certain obligations with respect to, e.g., course content
consistent with approved descriptions, timely statement of course
objectives and grading criteria, regular class attendance, published
office hours, and timely return of examinations and semester papers.
This Code is printed in full in the catalog. It includes specifics about
complaint procedures available to students who believe that their
instructors have violated the Code.

2\. Each teaching unit shall make regular and systematic use of student
instructional ratings as part of the unit\'s evaluation of instructional
performance. Each teaching unit shall formulate and promulgate a
comprehensive policy covering all aspects of student instructional
rating procedures, and shall be responsible for implementing that policy
within the framework of the provisions contained in this document.
Students shall not be required or requested by faculty members to
identify themselves on the rating forms.

3\. All instructors, regardless of rank, including graduate assistants,
shall use unit-approved student instructional rating forms in all
classes (every course, every section, every semester). For team-teaching
situations, units shall develop procedures consistent with the intent of
these provisions.

4\. Individual instructors may use other instruments to gather additional
information.

5\. Results of student instructional ratings shall be used in accordance
with the following provisions:

a\. Results shall be returned promptly to the instructor for information
and assistance in improving course design and instruction.

b\. Instructors shall have the opportunity to comment, orally and/or in
writing, upon the ratings received. These comments shall be taken into
account by persons or groups charged with making or advising on
personnel decisions.

c\. Results of student instructional ratings shall be systematically
consulted, with due regard for strict confidentiality, in conjunction
with other means for assessing individual effectiveness, according to
the review criteria promulgated within each unit. Other means might
include, e.g., classroom visits or consideration of course syllabi,
assignments, and examinations.

6\. Procedures for implementing the rating process and for utilizing the
results shall be promulgated by each teaching unit, subject to the
following provisions:

a\. Duly promulgated unit procedures shall be filed in the offices of the
appropriate Dean and the Provost, where they will be matters of public
record.

b\. Unit administrators are responsible for implementing in their units
SIRS procedures which follow fully the requirements of this document.

c\. Teaching units may have the required SIRS instruments administered by
a person other than the instructor. If the unit does not administer the
instruments, instructors are obligated to do so, and to return all
results to unit offices within the time period specified in the unit
procedures.

d\. At the time instruments are administered, students shall be informed
who will have access to the results and how the results will be used.

**STUDENT OPINION OF COURSES AND TEACHING (SOCT)**

Preamble\
The following policy operates as a complement to the Student
Instructional Rating System (SIRS) policy to provide selected public
information for students as an aid to choosing courses. Forms are
available in the Scoring Office, 208 Computer Center.

Policy on the Student Public Evaluation System\
Students at Michigan State University have an interest in being able to
make informed judgments in selecting courses and faculty members as
students pursue their academic programs. To this end, the University
Committee on Academic Policy (UCAP) has framed a set of questions that
should provide the type of information that students seek. In order to
facilitate the transmission of this information to the students, the
following procedures are established:

::: {xmlns=""}
1.  In addition to using standard university or unit-based SIRS forms in
    every class each semester in compliance with the Student
    Instructional Rating System policy, faculty members at the rank of
    instructor or above, and specialists who are assigned to teach,
    shall administer a standard form (Student Opinion of Courses and
    Teaching) in all of their regular undergraduate classes.
2.  The SOCT forms shall be administered within the last two weeks of
    classes. Instructors should leave the room until the forms have been
    completed and collected. The forms should be collected by a neutral
    party, turned in to a predetermined location, and should not be
    accessible to the instructor until grades are submitted.
3.  Results will be disseminated in summary form, displayed by
    instructor and department, once per year through a Web site
    accessible to students and other members of the University community
    with the appropriate identification.
:::

**INTEGRITY OF SCHOLARSHIP AND GRADES**

The principles of truth and honesty are recognized as fundamental to a
community of teachers and scholars. The University expects that both
faculty and students will honor these principles and in so doing protect
the validity of University grades. This means that all academic work
will be done by the student to whom

it is assigned, without unauthorized aid of any kind. (See General
Student Regulation 1.00, Scholarship and Grades, for specific
regulations.) Instructors, for their part, will exercise care in the
planning and supervision of academic work, so that honest effort will be
positively encouraged.

If any instance of academic dishonesty is discovered by an instructor,
it is his or her responsibility to take appropriate action. Depending on
his or her judgment of the particular case, he or she may give a failing
grade to the student on the assignment or for the course.

In instances where a failing grade in a course is given only for
academic dishonesty, the instructor will notify the student\'s academic
dean in writing of the circumstances.

The student who receives a failing grade based on a charge of academic
dishonesty may appeal a judgment made by a department, school, or a
college to the University Academic Integrity Review Board. Refer to
Academic Freedom for Students at Michigan State University.

When, in the judgment of the academic dean, action other than, or in
addition to, a failing grade is warranted, the dean will refer the case
to the college-level hearing board which shall have original
jurisdiction. In cases of ambiguous jurisdiction, the appropriate
judiciary will be randomly selected by the Assistant Provost from one of
the three core colleges. Appeals from the judgment maybe made to the
University Academic Integrity Review Board. Refer to Academic Freedom
for Students at Michigan State University.

In instances of academic dishonesty where the instructor feels that
action other than, or in addition to, a failing grade in the course is
warranted, the instructor will report the case to his or her
departmental or school chairperson and to the student\'s academic dean.
The dean will then refer the case to the College-level hearing board
which shall have original jurisdiction. Refer to Academic Freedom for
Students at Michigan State University.

**GRADING SYSTEMS**

Michigan State University employs three systems of grading: a numerical
system, a supplemental credit-no credit system, and a limited pass-no
grade system.

All grades are final and may not be changed by re-examination or by the
submission of additional work. See Repeating a Course.

**The Numerical System** \
The numerical system consists of the following scale. 4.0 - 3.5 - 3.0 -
2.5 - 2.0 - 1.5 - 1.0 - 0.0.

Grading Procedure of the Numerical System:

1\. Credit is awarded at the following minimum levels:

1.0 for undergraduate students.\
2.0 for graduate students.\
However, all grades are counted in the calculation of the grade-point
average (GPA).

2\. The minimum cumulative grade-point average required for graduation is
a 2.00 for undergraduates and 3.00 for graduate students.

3\. In particular graduate programs the number of 2.0 grades acceptable
for credit may be expressly restricted and/or levels higher than the 2.0
minimum may be established for the fulfillment of degree requirements.

4\. Grades given in courses completed under enrollment on the numerical
system cannot be converted to credit or no-credit under the credit-no
credit system.

**The Credit-No Credit System\
**The credit-no-credit system is intended to allow students to study in
areas outside the major field of study without jeopardizing their
grade-point averages. In the credit-no credit system the following
symbols are used.

CR-Credit-means that credit is granted and represents a level of
performance equivalent to or above the grade-point average required for
graduation. Thus, undergraduate students must perform at or above the
2.0 level before credit is granted; graduate students must perform at or
above the 3.0 level.

NC-No Credit-means that no credit is granted and represents a level of
performance below the grade-point average required for graduation, i.e.,
below 2.0 for undergraduate students, below 3.0 for graduate students.

**Grading Procedure of the CR-NC System**

::: {xmlns=""}
1.  Grades on the CR-NC system are not included in computing the
    semester or cumulative grade-point average.
2.  Enrollment on a CR-NC basis is recorded with the academic adviser
    and with the Registrar. The instructor\'s class list does not
    indicate which students are enrolled on CR-NC basis.
3.  When the course is completed, all students are graded on the
    numerical system.
4.  The Registrar then converts the numerical grades to credit or no
    credit in accord with the definitions of CR-NC stated above, but
    retains the numerical grades in the student\'s academic records.
5.  When a student changes a major preference or a major, the Registrar
    converts those letter grades to numerical grades in courses that are
    necessarily graded on the numerical system in the new major.
:::

**Enrollment in the CR-NC System** \
Enrollment on a CR-NC basis is open to students, at their option,
subject to the following conditions:

1\. Course prerequisites and other criteria for enrolling in any course
shall be determined by the department or college offering the course and
apply equally to both the numerical and the CR-NC systems.

2\. The choice of numerical or CR-NC system does not affect admission to
the course.

3\. All courses in every department and college are available on a CR-NC
basis unless these courses are:

a\. Used to satisfy the Tier I writing requirement, the Tier II writing
requirement, the University mathematics requirement, and Integrative
Studies Program requirements, or

b\. Designated as Type 1, Type 2, or Type 3 courses under the
remedial-developmental-preparatory

course policy.

c\. Specifically excluded from CR-NC enrollment by the department,
school, or college of the student\'s major preference or major, or the
unit recommending the student for certification.

4\. Limitations:

a\. No undergraduate student may enroll in more than one course in a
single semester on the CR-NC system and may not enroll in more than a
total of 20 credits in all semesters.

b\. The limitations on the number of credits a graduate student may take
in a given semester on the CR-NC basis, and the total number of credits
that may be taken in a given degree program on a CR-NC basis, shall be
established by the college, department, or school, or the unit
recommending the student for certification in which the student is a
major.

5\. Each department, school, or college, or the unit recommending the
student for certification shall designate those courses that its majors
or candidates for certification may not take on the CR-NC system.

6\. Choice of the CR-NC system must be communicated by the student to the
Office of the Registrar prior to the end of the 5th day of classes for
the semester and may not be changed after the 5th day of classes.

7\. Any course taken more than once must be repeated on the same grading
system under which the course was completed the first time, except where
standard requirements to the contrary must be satisfied in order to meet
graduation requirements.

**The Pass-No Grade System**

This system is used only in courses specifically approved by the
University Committee on Curriculum. Non-credit courses and those
involving field experience are the usual types of courses approved for
P-N grading. Courses approved for P-N grading are so marked in the
Schedule of Courses.

In the pass-no grade system the following symbols are used:

**P-Pass**-means that credit is granted and that the student achieved a
level of performance judged to be satisfactory by the instructor.

**N-No Grade**-means that no credit is granted and that the student did
not achieve a level of performance judged to be satisfactory by the
instructor.\
[\
](mailto:burtkara@provost.msu.edu?subject=Compensatory%20Time%20Inquiry)
[Back to Faculty & Academic Staff Policies and
Procedures](https://www.hr.msu.edu/policies-procedures/faculty-academic-staff/fas-policies-procedures/index.html)
:::

[©](http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/10?skin=oucampus&account=msuhr&site=Home&action=de&path=/policies-procedures/faculty-academic-staff/fas-policies-procedures/academic_responsibilities.pcf)
