---
title: Criminal Background Checks
---

::: {#body}
Faculty Policies and Procedures

**Criminal Background Checks for Faculty, Academic Staff and Executive
Management**

 Last updated: 2/8/2018

::: {xmlns=""}
*This Policy was endorsed by the University Committee on Faculty Affairs
and the Academic Specialist Advisory Committee, issued by the Office of
the Provost on January 1, 2010, and revised on February 12, 2018.*

I. Purpose

Michigan State University is committed to providing a safe environment
for its students, faculty, and staff in support of its educational
mission. This Policy is intended to help the University achieve that
goal by mandating the use of criminal background checks in the hiring
process for faculty, academic staff, and executive managers and by
establishing procedures for conducting those background checks.

The Policy also requires faculty, academic staff, and executive managers
to self-disclose certain arrests, convictions, and/or events as outlined
in the Michigan State University Self-Disclosure Form within 72 hours or
at the earliest possible opportunity.

II\. Applicability

This Policy applies to all faculty, academic staff, and executive
management appointments (whether paid or unpaid), including visiting
appointments.

III\. Policy

A criminal background check, including degree verification, is required
for all new faculty, academic staff, and executive management
appointments.^1^ The criminal background check will include the
following:^2^

A. Verification of Social Security Number

B. Examination of county criminal records (county of current residence)

C. Examination of state criminal records (recent residences)

D. Examination of federal criminal records

E. Examination of sex offender registry (nationwide)

F. Examination of federal debarment lists

G. Degree verification

In addition, all individuals who hold a faculty, academic staff, or
executive management appointment are required to disclose to the
Associate Provost and Associate Vice President for Academic Human
Resources within 72 hours of the period of their occurrence, or at the
earliest possible opportunity, all relevant events that could adversely
affect their ability to fulfill successfully the responsibilities of
their appointment, including:

1.  Professional misconduct or sanctions
2.  Any civil rights violation that the individual admitted or was
    determined by a court or other adjudicative process to have
    committed
3.  Any felony crime for which the individual was arrested and charged
    or any serious crime^3^ for which the individual was convicted or
    pled "no contest."

IV\. Criminal Background Check Process

A. The final candidate for a faculty, academic staff, or executive
management position (whether paid of unpaid) will be required to
complete a consumer disclosure and authorization form for a criminal
background check to be conducted by an outside vendor for review by the
University.

B. Candidates must be informed that a criminal background check is a
prerequisite to any faculty, academic staff, or executive management
appointment at MSU. The candidate's refusal to submit the authorization
form will constitute a withdrawal from the applicant pool.

C. The criminal background check will be initiated by the final
candidate or the hiring unit once a contingent offer of appointment has
been issued and an authorization form is completed.^4^ Written offers of
appointment extended to faculty, academic staff, and executive managers
must clearly state that the offer is contingent on satisfactory criminal
background check results, including degree verification.

D. The results of the criminal background check ("meets standards" or
"pending review") will be sent to an authorized individual in the hiring
unit. If questionable results are obtained ("pending review"), the
Associate Provost and Associate Vice President for Academic Human
Resources will receive a detailed report. The Associate Provost will
contact the candidate and provide him/her with an opportunity to explain
the results and provide clarifying information. Prior criminal
convictions do not automatically preclude employment.

E. In consultation with the relevant unit administrator(s), the
Associate Provost will evaluate the relevancy of the candidate's
criminal history to the position the candidate is seeking. The Associate
Provost may also seek advice and guidance from other University offices,
such as the MSU Police Department and Office of the General Counsel.

F. The assessment of a candidate's criminal history will take into
account:

1.  The nature and gravity of any criminal offense(s);
2.  The individual's age at the time of the offense(s);
3.  The number and type of offense (felony, misdemeanor, traffic
    violations, etc.);
4.  The sentence or sanction for the offense and compliance with the
    sanction(s);
5.  The amount of time that has passed since the offense and/or
    completion of the sentence(s);
6.  Whether there is a pattern of offenses;
7.  Whether the offense arose in connection with the candidate's prior
    employment;
8.  Information supplied by the candidate about the offense(s);
9.  Work record and references after the offense(s);
10. Subsequent criminal activity; and
11. Truthfulness of the candidate in disclosing the offense(s).

G. The University may decline to hire any candidate whose criminal
history the University deems incompatible with the position the
candidate is seeking.

H. Faculty, academic staff, and executive management appointments may
not receive final approval until the required background check has been
performed and the results received and assessed.

I. In order to provide the maximum degree of protection for candidates'
privacy, all records related to criminal background checks will be
maintained in a secure location separate from employee personnel
records. Criminal background check records will be maintained on a
confidential basis to the maximum extent allowed by law.

J. Any candidate who provides false or misleading information will be
eliminated from further consideration. If false or misleading
information is discovered after an individual has been appointed in an
executive management, academic specialist, or fixed-term faculty
position, the individual's employment may be terminated pursuant to the
appropriate dismissal procedures. If false or misleading information is
discovered after an individual has been appointed in the tenure system,
the University may rescind the appointment pursuant to the faculty
Policy and Procedure for Rescission.

V. Self-Disclosure Process

Individuals currently employed or engaged by the University (whether
paid or unpaid) are required to notify the Associate Provost and
Associate Vice President of Academic Human Resources of certain arrests,
convictions, or events within 72 hours or at the earliest possible
opportunity by using the Michigan State University Self-Disclosure Form.
The arrests, convictions and events that must be reported are described
in Section III of this policy.  

Engagement in any such conduct will not, in and of itself, result in
termination of the appointment. However, failure to disclose such
information, or any misrepresentation made in connection with the
disclosure, could be grounds for termination.

The Associate Provost will make a good faith effort to contact the
individual and provide him/her with an opportunity to provide clarifying
information about the disclosure.

In consultation with the relevant unit administrator(s), the Associate
Provost will evaluate the relevancy of the criminal history and/or
events disclosed and determine whether the individual can successfully
fulfill the responsibilities of their appointment.  The Associate
Provost may also seek advice and guidance from other University offices,
such as the MSU Police Department and the Office of the General
Counsel.  The Associate Provost will utilize the factors listed in
Section IV.F above in conducting this assessment.

Depending on the facts of the matter disclosed and the impact on the
individual's ability to successfully fulfill the responsibilities of
their appointment, the individual may be subject to disciplinary action,
up to and including termination.

VII\. Related Documents

[Criminal Background Check Authorization and Consent
PDF](https://www.hr.msu.edu/employment/documents/HireRightDisclosureandConsentForm_ALL.pdf "Criminal Background Check Authorization & Consent PDF ")

[Criminal Background Check Frequently Asked
Questions](https://www.hr.msu.edu/policies-procedures/faculty-academic-staff/fas-policies-procedures/CriminalCheckFAQ.html "FAQ")

[Self-Disclosure
Form](/policies-procedures/faculty-academic-staff/fas-policies-procedures/documents/cbc-self-disclosure-form.pdf "Self-Disclosure Form")

<div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

</div>

^1 ^In lieu of a University background check, the University will rely
on the background check conducted by: (1) the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security for individuals coming to the University directly from
residence outside the United States, and (2) the hospital/medical
facility where unpaid clinical faculty who volunteer for MSU are
privileged and credentialed, and/or hold regular employment, as long as
they are as strenuous as the University's criminal background check
processes.

^2 ^Nothing in this Policy negates the possibility that a more
comprehensive criminal background check may be required pursuant to
state or federal law, for certain sensitive positions (such as those
with significant financial responsibilities), or when the University has
reasonable suspicion that the original background check was incomplete
or inaccurate or that a criminal background check may be required for
existing faculty and staff who: (1) are legally required to have a
background check, (2) are required to have a criminal background check
pursuant to the Conducting Youth Programs on Campus:  Minimum
Operational Requirements, (3) work in facilities that require a criminal
background check, (4) are assigned new duties that involve significant
safety or security considerations or financial responsibilities, or (5)
the University receives credible information on to suggest the
individual  has failed to provide updated information about a felony
arrest or criminal conviction as required by policy.

^3^A "serious crime" is one that involves drug distribution; sexual
offenses; violence involving physical injury to another person; child
abuse, molestation, or child endangerment; theft or embezzlement.

^4^Costs associated with the criminal background check process will be
covered centrally.\
\
[Back to Faculty & Academic Staff Policies and
Procedures](https://www.hr.msu.edu/policies-procedures/faculty-academic-staff/fas-policies-procedures/index.html)
:::
:::

[©](http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/10?skin=oucampus&account=msuhr&site=Home&action=de&path=/policies-procedures/faculty-academic-staff/fas-policies-procedures/CriminalCheck.pcf)
