Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 8: Regulations, Policies, and
Rulings

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Foreword
    -   Preface
    -   Article 1: Guiding Values and Principles
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 3: Student Records
    -   Article 4: Non-Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Non-Academic Cases
    -   Article 6: Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 7: Adjudication of Academic Cases
    -   Article 8: Regulations, Policies, and Rulings
    -   Article 9: Independent and University-Supported Student
        Publications
    -   Article 10: Office of the Ombudsperson
    -   Article 11: Definitions and Acronyms
    -   Article 12: Procedures for Amending and Revising This Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 8: Regulations, Policies, and Rulings

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 8: REGULATIONS, POLICIES, AND RULINGS


The University community’s expectations for student and group conduct
which hold the potential for disciplinary action shall be promulgated as
General Student Regulations, Student Group Regulations, Living Group
Regulations, and All-University Policies as defined herein.
Administrative decisions which mediate the flow of services and
privileges in the operation of the University are Administrative
Rulings.  All regulations, policies, and rulings promulgated by the
University shall be consistent with this document.

I. GENERAL STUDENT REGULATIONS

A. General Student Regulations shall be those regulations established
within the University community to secure the safety of members of the
University community and University facilities, maintain order, and
ensure the successful operation of the institution. Such regulations
shall apply to all students, regardless of class level, place of
residence, or group affiliation, as well as to all governing bodies,
governing groups, living groups, and registered student organizations.

B. Any governing body, governing group, living group, or registered
student organization or any individual member of the University
community may propose amendments to the General Student Regulations by
submitting that proposal to the UCSA. The UCSA may also propose
amendments to the General Student Regulations.

C. Proposals submitted to the UCSA may be approved or rejected. If
rejected, the UCSA shall forward a written explanation to the initiator
of the proposal. The explanation may include suggestions for
modification of the proposal. If approved, the UCSA shall forward the
proposal to the University Council.

D. The University Council may approve or reject the proposal. If the
University Council rejects the proposal, a written explanation of the
rejection shall be forwarded to the UCSA. The written explanation may
include suggestions for modification of the proposal. If the proposal is
approved, the University Council shall forward the proposal to the
President.

E. The President may approve or reject the proposal.  If the President
rejects the proposal, a written explanation of the rejection shall be
forwarded to the UCSA. The written explanation may include suggestions
for modification of the proposal. If the proposal is approved, the
amendment shall take effect upon its approval by the President.

II. STUDENT GROUP REGULATIONS

A. Student Group Regulations shall be those regulations established
within the University community to govern the conduct of the constituent
members of a governing body or a governing group and the activities of
living groups and registered student organizations under a governing
body or governing group’s jurisdiction. Such Regulations shall apply
only to the students, bodies, groups, and organizations specified by the
Regulations.

B. Any constituent member of a governing body or governing group or any
living group or registered student organization under its jurisdiction
may propose amendments to the Student Group Regulations by submitting
that proposal to the governing body or group with the appropriate
legislative authority. A governing body or governing group may also
propose amendments to the General Student Regulations.

C. Proposals submitted to the appropriate student governing body (ASMSU
or COGS) may be approved or rejected. If rejected, the student governing
body shall forward a written explanation to the initiator of the
proposal. The explanation may include suggestions for modification of
the proposal. If approved, the student governing body shall forward the
proposal to the UCSA.

D. The UCSA may approve or reject the proposal. If rejected, the
University Committee on Student Affairs shall forward a written
explanation to the appropriate student governing body (ASMSU or COGS).
The explanation may include suggestions for modification of the
proposal. If approved, the proposal shall be forwarded to the Vice
President.

E. The Vice President may approve or reject the proposal. If the Vice
President rejects the proposal, a written explanation of the rejection
shall be forwarded to the UCSA. The explanation may include suggestions
for modification of the proposal. If the proposal is approved, the
amendment shall take effect upon its approval by the Vice President.

III. LIVING GROUP REGULATIONS

A. Living Group Regulations shall be those regulations established
within the University community to govern the conduct of residents and
other students who are visitors and guests while within the building or
buildings defining the living group. Such Regulations shall apply to all
students regardless of class level, place of residence, or group
affiliation.

B. Any constituent member of a living group may propose amendments to
that group’s Living Group Regulations by submitting such proposals to
the living group with appropriate legislative authority. Living groups
may also propose amendments to their own Living Group Regulations.

C. Proposals submitted to the living group may be approved or rejected.
If rejected, the living group shall forward a written explanation to the
initiator of the proposal. The explanation may include suggestions for
modification of the proposal. If approved, the living group shall
forward the proposal to the appropriate student governing body.

D. The student governing body may approve or reject the proposal. If
rejected, the student governing body shall forward a written explanation
to the initiator of the proposal. If approved, the student governing
body shall forward the proposal to the UCSA.

E. The UCSA may approve or reject the proposal. If rejected, the UCSA
shall forward a written explanation to the appropriate student governing
body. The explanation may include suggestions for modification of the
proposal. If approved, the proposal shall be forwarded to the Vice
President.

F. The Vice President may approve or reject the proposal. If the Vice
President rejects the proposal, a written explanation of the rejection
shall be forwarded to the UCSA. The explanation may include suggestions
for modification of the proposal. If the proposal is approved, the
amendment shall take effect upon its approval by the Vice President.

IV. ALL-UNIVERSITY POLICIES

A. All-University Policies shall be policies established within the
University community to define and prescribe broad areas of
institutional concern. Such policies shall apply to the individuals,
groups, and organizations specified by the policies.

B. All-University Policies are established by the Board of Trustees,
usually following University-wide discussion and endorsement or as the
result of a recommendation by an administrative unit or committee. It is
the expectation that the appropriate academic governance bodies will be
provided with an opportunity to review and provide input on such
Policies as part of the approval process. All-University Policies may
also be initiated and enacted by the Board itself.

V. ADMINISTRATIVE RULINGS

A. Administrative Rulings shall be those policies, procedures, and
practices established to implement the functions of the University’s
various administrative units. Such Rulings shall apply to the
individuals, groups, and organizations specified by the Rulings. The
various administrative units are delegated authority, by the Board of
Trustees through the President, to establish Administrative Rulings.

B. The process by which Administrative Rulings are developed shall be
consistent with the legislative and advisory duties and prerogatives of
the relevant academic governance bodies.  The process shall reflect
concern for student input when the substance of a ruling affects
students.

C. When a student is alleged to be noncompliant with an Administrative
Ruling that may result in disciplinary action under Article 5 of this
document, the relevant unit administrator shall invite the student to a
meeting to allow the student an opportunity to clarify the situation.

1. The administrator shall determine whether the alleged noncompliance
may violate a General Student Regulation, Student Group Regulation, or
Living Group Regulation, or an All-University Policy. If so, the
administrator may refer the student for disciplinary action under
Article 5 of this document.

 2. The administrator shall assess the situation and decide whether any
interim or temporary non-disciplinary actions must be taken during the
pendency of his/her investigation (if applicable) or to prevent similar
acts from occurring. The administrator may not impose disciplinary
sanctions against a student without going through the judicial process
described in Article 5 of this document.

3. The administrator shall notify the student, in writing, of any
non-disciplinary action taken; the rationale for the action, and whether
the Administrative Ruling provides any avenue of appeal of the decision.
The student may challenge the Administrative Ruling itself pursuant to
Article 5, Section II of this document.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
