Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 10: Office of the Ombudsperson

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Foreword
    -   Preface
    -   Article 1: Guiding Values and Principles
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 3: Student Records
    -   Article 4: Non-Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Non-Academic Cases
    -   Article 6: Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 7: Adjudication of Academic Cases
    -   Article 8: Regulations, Policies, and Rulings
    -   Article 9: Independent and University-Supported Student
        Publications
    -   Article 10: Office of the Ombudsperson
    -   Article 11: Definitions and Acronyms
    -   Article 12: Procedures for Amending and Revising This Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 10: Office of the Ombudsperson

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 10: OFFICE OF THE OMBUDSPERSON


I. The President shall appoint a senior faculty member or executive
manager with the title of University Ombudsperson. The Ombudsperson
shall respect the sensitive and confidential nature of the position and
the privacy of all persons soliciting assistance from the Office of the
Ombudsperson, thereby protecting them against retaliation. The
Ombudsperson’s functions shall include the following charges:

A. The Ombudsperson shall establish simple, orderly procedures for
receiving requests, complaints, and grievances from students.

B. The Ombudsperson shall assist students in accomplishing the
expeditious settlement of their problems and may advise a student that
the student’s request, complaint, or grievance lacks merit, or that the
student should seek a remedy elsewhere in the University. The
Ombudsperson may also assist the student in obtaining an informal
settlement of the student’s problem.

II. The Ombudsperson shall have broad investigatory powers and direct
and ready access to all University officials, including the President.

III. When necessary, the Ombudsperson shall report directly to the
President valid complaints for which no remedy has been found. The
Ombudsperson shall also report any recommendations regarding such
complaints.

IV. The Ombudsperson shall make periodic reports to the President
regarding the operation of the Office of the Ombudsperson.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
