Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 1: Guiding Values and Principles

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Foreword
    -   Preface
    -   Article 1: Guiding Values and Principles
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 3: Student Records
    -   Article 4: Non-Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Non-Academic Cases
    -   Article 6: Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 7: Adjudication of Academic Cases
    -   Article 8: Regulations, Policies, and Rulings
    -   Article 9: Independent and University-Supported Student
        Publications
    -   Article 10: Office of the Ombudsperson
    -   Article 11: Definitions and Acronyms
    -   Article 12: Procedures for Amending and Revising This Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 1: Guiding Values and Principles

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 1: GUIDING VALUES AND PRINCIPLES


Michigan State University is a community of scholars whose members
include its faculty, staff, students, and administrators. The basic
purposes of the University are the advancement, dissemination, and
application of knowledge. The most basic condition for the achievement
of these purposes is freedom of expression and communication. Without
this freedom, effective sifting and testing of ideas cease, and
research, teaching, and learning are stifled. Knowledge is as broad and
diverse as life itself, and the need for freedom is equally broad. Yet
absolute freedom in all aspects of life means anarchy, just as absolute
order means tyranny. Both anarchy and tyranny are antithetical to the
purposes and character of the University. Therefore, the University
always must strive to strike that balance between maximum freedom and
necessary order which best promotes its basic purposes by providing the
environment most conducive to the many faceted activities of
instruction, research, and service.

Each right of an individual places a reciprocal duty upon others: the
duty to permit the individual to exercise the right. The student, as a
member of the academic community, has both rights and duties. Within
that community, the student’s most essential right is the right to
learn. The University has a duty to provide for the student those
privileges, opportunities, and protections which best promote the
learning process in all its aspects. The student also has duties to
other members of the academic community, the most important of which is
to refrain from interference with those rights of others which are
equally essential to the purposes and processes of the University.

The University cherishes many values, modes of thought, and standards of
behavior that are better taught by example and rewards than by the
threat of penalties. Regulations governing the activities and conduct of
student groups and individual students should not be comprehensive codes
of desirable conduct; rather, they should be limited to the prescription
of procedures for meeting the practical, routine necessities of a
complex community and to the prohibition or limitation of acts which
cannot be tolerated because they seriously interfere with the basic
purposes, necessities, and processes of the academic community, or with
rights essential to other members of the community.

The student is not only a member of the academic community, but a
citizen of the larger society, who retains those rights, protections,
and guarantees of fair treatment held by all citizens, and which the
University may not deny. The enforcement of the student’s duties to the
larger society is, however, the responsibility of the legal and judicial
authorities duly established for that purpose.

GUIDELINES

To protect student rights and to facilitate the definition of student
responsibilities at Michigan State University, the following guidelines
shall apply to those stipulations and conditions by which student
conduct is regulated, broadly referred to as “regulations” in the
remainder of this Article.

A. All regulations shall seek the best possible reconciliation of the
principles of maximum freedom and necessary order.

B. There shall be no regulation unless there is a demonstrable need
which is reasonably related to the basic purposes and necessities of the
University as stipulated herein.

C. To the maximum extent feasible, students shall participate in
formulating and revising regulations governing student conduct.

D. All regulations governing student conduct shall be made public in an
appropriate manner.

E. Every regulation shall be as brief, clear, and specific as possible.

F. Wherever rights conflict, regulations shall, to the maximum extent
feasible, permit reasonable scope for each conflicting right by defining
the circumstances of time, place, and means appropriate to its exercise.

G. Regulations shall respect the free expression of ideas and shall
encourage the competition of ideas from diverse perspectives.

H. Procedures and penalties for the violation of regulations shall be
primarily designed for guidance or correction of behavior.

I. Penalties shall be commensurate with the seriousness of the offense.
Repeated violations may justify increasingly severe penalties.

J. There shall be clearly defined channels and procedures for the appeal
and review of:

1. The finding of guilt in an alleged violation of a regulation.

2. The reasonableness, under the circumstances, of the penalty imposed
for a specific violation.

3. The substance of a regulation or administrative decision which is
alleged to be inconsistent with the guidelines in this document.

4. The fairness of the procedures followed in the adjudication.

K. Students accused of violating a regulation or University policy shall
have the right to appear before a duly constituted hearing body as
provided in this document.  No student shall be suspended or dismissed
from the University for disciplinary reasons, except through the
procedures of this document or the applicable sections of the _Graduate
Student Rights and Responsibilities_ document or the _Medical Student
Rights and Responsibilities_ document.

L. Every regulation shall specify to whom it applies and whether
responsibility for compliance lies with individuals, with groups, or
with both.

M. _Student Handbook and Resource Guide_: A handbook of the University’s
current regulations relating to student rights and responsibilities
shall be made available to every member of the academic community.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
