Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 2: Academic Rights and
Responsibilities

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Foreword
    -   Preface
    -   Article 1: Guiding Values and Principles
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 3: Student Records
    -   Article 4: Non-Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Non-Academic Cases
    -   Article 6: Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 7: Adjudication of Academic Cases
    -   Article 8: Regulations, Policies, and Rulings
    -   Article 9: Independent and University-Supported Student
        Publications
    -   Article 10: Office of the Ombudsperson
    -   Article 11: Definitions and Acronyms
    -   Article 12: Procedures for Amending and Revising This Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 2: ACADEMIC RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES


I. PREAMBLE

The freedom and effectiveness of the educational process depend upon the
provision of appropriate conditions and opportunities for learning in
an environment that is supportive of diversity among ideas, cultures,
and student characteristics. The responsibility to secure, respect, and
protect such opportunities and conditions is shared by all members of
the academic community. The primacy of the faculty’s role and its
centrality in the educational process must be recognized and preserved.
The primary intellectual purpose of the University — its intellectual
content and integrity — is the responsibility of the faculty.

The establishment and maintenance of the proper relationship between
instructor and student are fundamental to the University’s function, and
require both instructor and student to recognize the rights and
responsibilities which derive from it. The relationship between
instructor and student as individuals should be founded on mutual
respect and understanding together with shared dedication to the
educational process.

II. ROLE OF THE FACULTY IN THE INSTRUCTIONAL PROCESS

A. No provision for the rights of students can be valid which suspends
the rights of the faculty. The student’s right to competent instruction
must be reconciled with the rights of the faculty, consistent with the
principle that the competency of a professional can be rightly judged
only by professionals.  It is, therefore, acknowledged and mandated that
competence of instruction shall be judged by the faculty.

B. Faculty shall have authority and responsibility for academic policy
and practices in areas such as degree eligibility and requirements,
course content and grading, classroom procedure, and standards of
professional behavior in accordance with the _Bylaws for Academic
Governance_, the _Code of Teaching Responsibility_, and other documents
on faculty rights and responsibilities.

C. No hearing board established under this document shall interfere with
the evaluation of a student that represents a course instructor’s good
faith judgment of the student’s performance. In the event that an
evaluation is determined to be based on inappropriate or irrelevant
factors, as discussed in Section III.B.1 below, the dean of the relevant
college shall cause the student’s performance to be reassessed and a
good faith evaluation to be made.

D. The University shall provide appropriate and clearly defined channels
for the receipt and consideration of student complaints concerning
instruction. In no instance shall the competence of instruction form the
basis for an adversarial proceeding before any of the judicial bodies
established in this document.

III. RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE STUDENT

A. The student is responsible for learning and demonstrating mastery of
the content and skills of a course of study, while participating
actively in the course’s intellectual community, according to standards
of performance established by the faculty.

B. The student has a right to academic evaluations that represent the
course instructor’s good faith judgments of performance. Course grades
shall represent the instructor’s professional and objective evaluation
of the student’s academic performance. The student shall have the right
to know all course requirements, including grading criteria, and course
procedures at the beginning of the course. (See also the _Code of
Teaching Responsibility_.)

1. To overcome the presumption of good faith, it must be demonstrated
that an evaluation was based entirely or in part upon factors that are
inappropriate or irrelevant to academic performance and applicable
professional standards.¹

2. The student shares with the faculty the responsibility for
maintaining the integrity of scholarship, grades, and professional
standards.

3. The student shall be free to take reasoned exception to information
and views offered in the instructional context, and to reserve judgment
about matters of opinion, without fear of penalty or reprisal.

4. The student’s behavior in the classroom shall be conducive to the
teaching and learning process for all concerned.

5. The student has a right to be governed by educationally justifiable
academic regulations and professional standards. The administering unit
shall inform students in writing of such regulations, including codes of
professional behavior, at the time of the student’s entry into the
academic program.

6. The student has a right to accurate, timely, and clear information in
writing at the time of entry into an academic program concerning (a)
general academic requirements for establishing and maintaining an
acceptable academic standing, (b) the student’s academic relationship
with the University and the details of any special conditions that may
apply, and (c) graduation requirements for the student’s academic
program.

7. Students are responsible for informing themselves of University,
college, department, and school requirements as stated in unit
publications and in the University catalog. In planning to meet
such requirements, students are responsible for consulting with their
academic advisors.

8. The student has a right to protection against improper disclosure of
his/her education records² and personal information such as values,
beliefs, organizational affiliations, and health. (See also Article 3.)

9. The student has a right to be protected from personal exploitation
and to receive recognition for scholarly assistance to faculty.

10. The student and the faculty share the responsibility for maintaining
professional relationships based on mutual trust and civility.

_______________
1 Academic performance includes meeting applicable professional
standards when such standards are a component of the curriculum.
Professional standards must be approved by the relevant academic unit
and the dean and, in the case of college statements, the Office of the
Provost. The development of such standards within academic units shall
include student participation. The dean and the Office of the Provost
shall consult with appropriate governance groups before approving
professional standards.

2 See the _MSU Access to Student Information Guidelines_ for information
regarding confidentiality of student education records.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
