Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 6: Academic Hearing Board
Structures

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Foreword
    -   Preface
    -   Article 1: Guiding Values and Principles
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 3: Student Records
    -   Article 4: Non-Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Non-Academic Cases
    -   Article 6: Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 7: Adjudication of Academic Cases
    -   Article 8: Regulations, Policies, and Rulings
    -   Article 9: Independent and University-Supported Student
        Publications
    -   Article 10: Office of the Ombudsperson
    -   Article 11: Definitions and Acronyms
    -   Article 12: Procedures for Amending and Revising This Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 6: Academic Hearing Board Structures

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 6: ACADEMIC HEARING BOARD STRUCTURES


This Article describes the composition and jurisdiction of all academic
hearing boards that hear cases involving undergraduate students.
Academic hearing boards that hear cases involving graduate students are
described in the _Graduate Student Rights & Responsibilities_ document.
Academic hearing boards that hear cases involving medical students are
described in the _Medical Student Rights & Responsibilities_ document.
Non-academic hearing boards are described in Article 4 of this document.

I. COMPOSITION OF HEARING BOARDS

A. _Pool of potential Hearing Board members_. The three hearing boards
described in this Article (University Academic Grievance Hearing Board,
University Academic Integrity Hearing Board, and the University Academic
Appeal Board) will all draw their members from the same pool of
potential hearing board members. This pool will consist of _three_
faculty members from each college and _three_ undergraduate students
nominated from each college that offers undergraduate courses.

B. _Composition._ The senior faculty member on the University Academic
Grievance Hearing Board, the University Academic Integrity Hearing
Board, and the University Academic Appeal Board shall act as the chair
of that hearing board. The chair shall serve without vote, except in the
event of a tie. In addition to the chair, each Board will consist of an
equal number (no fewer than two) of voting undergraduate students and
faculty members. All members of the board shall be drawn from the pool
of potential hearing board members. Members of the pool not selected to
serve on a hearing board shall serve as alternates. Board composition is
specified in the relevant code of operations for each board._
_

C. _Term of Office_. Pool members (faculty and students) shall be
nominated no later than the middle of Spring Semester for terms of one
calendar year, beginning at the start of Summer Semester and ending at
the end of the following Spring Semester. Colleges can opt to appoint
faculty to two-year terms. In the event that colleges are late to
nominate pool members, currently serving pool members will extend their
service until a replacement is nominated. The specific hearing board
procedures shall include provisions for filling vacancies, including
provisions for appointments on an interim basis during Summer Semester.
Members can serve up to three consecutive terms, not to exceed four
consecutive years.

II. UNIVERSITY ACADEMIC GRIEVANCE HEARING BOARD

A. _Jurisdiction_. The University Academic Grievance Hearing Board shall
have initial jurisdiction over student academic grievances alleging
violations of student academic rights (see Article 2).

B. _Decisions_. The University Academic Grievance Hearing Board may
direct the appropriate administrator to implement whatever redress it
considers appropriate to the specific case.

C. _Appeals_. Decisions of the University Academic Grievance Hearing
Board may be appealed to the University Academic Appeal Board.

III. UNIVERSITY ACADEMIC INTEGRITY HEARING BOARD

A. _Jurisdiction_. The University Academic Integrity Hearing Board shall
have jurisdiction over academic grievances brought by a student to
contest a charge of academic misconduct or the severity of the penalty
grade imposed by an instructor. The University Academic Integrity
Hearing Board shall also have jurisdiction over academic disciplinary
hearings involving academic misconduct.

B. _Decisions_. The University Academic Integrity Hearing Board may
accept or reject the recommended sanction of the college, or may impose
a lesser sanction than recommended by the college, chosen from Article
7, Section VI.

C. _Appeals_. Decisions of the University Academic Integrity Hearing
Board may be appealed to the University Academic Appeal Board.

IV. UNIVERSITY ACADEMIC APPEAL BOARD

A. _Jurisdiction_. The University Academic Appeal Board shall have
appellate jurisdiction over (i) decisions by the University Academic
Integrity Hearing Board, and (ii) decisions by the University Academic
Grievance Hearing Board.

B. _Decisions_. If the University Academic Appeal Board agrees to hear
an appeal of an academic disciplinary or academic grievance decision,
the Board may accept or reject the decision or reduce the sanction
imposed by the University Academic Integrity Hearing Board or the
University Academic Grievance Hearing Board.

C. _Appeals_. All decisions of the University Academic Appeal Board may
be appealed in writing to the Provost within 10 class days of the Appeal
Board decision. The Provost may affirm or reverse the decision, reduce
the sanction imposed, or direct that the case be reheard.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
