Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 9: Independent and
University-Supported Student Publications

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Foreword
    -   Preface
    -   Article 1: Guiding Values and Principles
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 3: Student Records
    -   Article 4: Non-Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Non-Academic Cases
    -   Article 6: Academic Hearing Board Structures
    -   Article 7: Adjudication of Academic Cases
    -   Article 8: Regulations, Policies, and Rulings
    -   Article 9: Independent and University-Supported Student
        Publications
    -   Article 10: Office of the Ombudsperson
    -   Article 11: Definitions and Acronyms
    -   Article 12: Procedures for Amending and Revising This Document
    -   History of Approval
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 9: Independent and University-Supported Student Publications

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 9: INDEPENDENT AND UNIVERSITY-SUPPORTED STUDENT PUBLICATIONS


I. DEFINITIONS

A. Independent student publications:  Publications that are prepared and
distributed, at least in part, by students and that are not funded by
the administrative units of the University. Independent student
publications are typically publications of student living units,
governing groups, registered student organizations, or student groups.

B. University-supported student publications:  Publications that receive
funding from administrative units of the University.

II. GENERAL GUIDELINES

A. Students and student groups shall have maximum freedom to express
opinions and communicate ideas by preparing and distributing independent
student publications.

B. The University shall neither authorize nor prohibit the solicitation
of advertising by an independent student publication.

C. Administrative units may provide advice and counsel, but all
University-supported student publications shall be guaranteed freedom of
content and editorial policy.

D. The withdrawal of financial support as a means of censorship over
those University-supported student publications which are in substance a
forum for free speech is recognized to be inappropriate.

E. A University-funded publication should identify the campus unit
responsible for its preparation and distribution.

F. Regulations governing distribution of publications shall apply
equally to all publications.

G. Each on-campus living unit shall decide what policies shall be
formulated for distribution of publications within that living unit.

H. For buildings other than organized living units, the Secretary of the
Board of Trustees and the all-University student governing bodies, after
consultation with the administrative, faculty, and student occupants of
the building, shall determine designated places for the distribution of
publications.

I. Publications may be distributed in living units, classroom buildings,
and office buildings, but only in the places established through the
procedures described above. Hand-to-hand distribution is permitted in
all public areas of campus buildings, subject only to building security
and access rules and such limitations as are necessary to prevent
interference with scheduled University activities.

J. Publications shall be permitted outside campus buildings, subject
only to such limitations as are necessary to prevent interference with
the use of streets, sidewalks, and building entrances for other
purposes.

K. The offices of the Secretary of the Board of Trustees and ASMSU shall
keep available for inspection an up-to-date list of places of
distribution within campus buildings.

L. Any regulations necessary to implement these guidelines shall be
developed in accordance with Article 8 of this document.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
