Spartan Life Student Handbook - Special Learning Options

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
        -   Student Academic Affairs
        -   Libraries
        -   Technology Resources
        -   MSU Testing Office
        -   Special Learning Options
        -   Academic Records
        -   Complaints and Grievances
        -   Textbook and Course Materials Shopping Guide
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Academic Affairs and Services

> Special Learning Options

[Click here to print this page]



SPECIAL LEARNING OPTIONS


THE HONORS COLLEGE (HC) serves academically talented undergraduate
students who wish to pursue an enriched MSU education. HC students craft
individualized programs with the help of honors advisors; program
flexibility enables students to take maximum advantage of the
University’s distinguished array of teaching talent and research
facilities. Website: _www.honorscollege.msu.edu._ The ACADEMIC SCHOLARS
PROGRAM provides academic enrichment for first and second year students
with outstanding high school records who may be interested in an
invitation to the Honors College after the first semester. Website:
_https://msu.edu/~asp/_.

INTERNATIONAL STUDIES AND PROGRAMS (ISP) supports university-wide
initiatives to advance an understanding of global challenges among
students, faculty, staff and partner institutions. ISP offers services
that support research collaboration, study abroad, international
students and scholars, international professional programs, student
exchange programs, Fulbright Fellow applications and Peace Corps
recruiting. World area and thematic specializations, language programs
and services are also available through centers focused on Africa, Asia,
Canada, Europe and Russia, Latin America and the Caribbean, and the
gender and development. To learn more call (517) 355-2350 or visit 207
International Center. Website: _www.isp.msu.edu/._

THE OFFICE FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS AND SCHOLARS (OISS) offers
services for international students, scholars and their families.  OISS
staff advise on immigration, employment, housing, healthcare, financial
concerns, and academic problems. They also provide orientation and other
special programming that help international students integrate into and
adjust to the academic, cultural and social life at MSU. Contact (517)
353-1720 or _www.oiss.isp.msu.edu._

EDUCATION ABROAD – at MSU offers over 275 academic programs in more than
60 countries around the world through a wide range of program models
including internships, undergraduate student research, and
service-learning opportunities. Office for Education Abroad staff is
available to support, assist and guide students and faculty in searching
for and developing programs that maximize a student’s learning
experience abroad. Contact: Education Abroad Advising Center, 427 N.
Shaw Lane, Room 108, International Center, (517) 353-8920, email
abroad@msu.edu, Web: _educationabroad.msu.edu._

LIVING-LEARNING PROGRAMS – Residence Education and Housing Services
staff in partnership with academic units provide formal residential
programs and individual support in the areas of academic and career
development. Students may choose to live in a designated living-learning
program, or a residential college. Options include: CoRe Experience
(Engineering); Residential Initiative on the Study of the Environment
(sustainability and environmental stewardship); Multi-Racial Unity
Living Experience (building community across difference); Residential
Business Community (Business); Honors (academic excellence); Academic
Scholars Program (academic excellence); Lyman Briggs College;
Residential College in the Arts & Humanities; and James Madison College.
For more information visit _www.liveon.msu.edu_._
_

THE CENTER FOR SERVICE-LEARNING AND CIVIC ENGAGEMENT promotes “community
engaged” teaching, learning, and service which provides students with
opportunities to develop their academic, personal, professional, and
civic skills while making a positive difference by contributing to the
common good of local, national, and international communities through
service. A wide variety of academic (curricular) and volunteer
(co-curricular) service opportunities are available. Call (517)
353-4400, visit 556 E. Circle Drive Suite 345 Student Services Building
or _www.servicelearning.msu.edu_ for more information. To stay
up-to-date on MSU’s community engagement activities (e.g., Days of
Service, etc.), please sign up for our “Spartans Will. Serve!” blog @
_blog.servicelearning.msu.edu_.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
