Spartan Life Student Handbook - Textbook and Course Materials Shopping
Guide

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
    -   Academic Affairs and Services
        -   Student Academic Affairs
        -   Libraries
        -   Technology Resources
        -   MSU Testing Office
        -   Special Learning Options
        -   Academic Records
        -   Complaints and Grievances
        -   Textbook and Course Materials Shopping Guide
    -   Activities
    -   Career Services
    -   Employment
    -   Financial Aid
    -   Food
    -   Governance at MSU
    -   Health Services
    -   Housing
    -   Personal Security
    -   Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct
    -   Recreation
    -   Services for Community Groups
    -   Transportation
    -   University Directory and Information Services Provided by
        ContactMSU
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Information and Services

> Academic Affairs and Services

> Textbook and Course Materials Shopping Guide

[Click here to print this page]



TEXTBOOK AND COURSE MATERIALS SHOPPING GUIDE


Purchasing textbooks each semester is often a major expense and source
of stress for students. However, there are major savings on textbooks
available to students who know where and when to look. Just like buying
a cell phone plan or car, customers who research find better deals.

To assist you, a research team working with the Office of Campus
Sustainability (_www.bespartangreen.msu.edu_), who have studied textbook
shopping habits of students, prepared this guide. The term ‘textbook’
refers to all books used by students in MSU classes (from _Accounting
Fundamentals to ZZ Top: Fearless Boogie_) and includes “Course Packs”,
“Laboratory Instruction Materials” and any other printed materials
required for your courses.

As you use this guide, if you have any comments or feedback, please
send to MSUTextbookGuideFeedback@gmail.com.

HOW TO BE A SMART TEXTBOOK SHOPPER
1.    BEFORE YOUR FIRST CLASS, DETERMINE WHICH BOOKS YOU NEED AND WHERE
YOU ARE GOING TO BUY THEM. THIS WILL ALLOW YOU TIME TO FIND GOOD DEALS
WHILE BOOKS ARE STILL IN STOCK, AND WILL ALLOW MORE TIME FOR MATERIALS
TO BE SHIPPED IF NECESSARY.

Many students don’t begin their textbook shopping until after their
first class.  An argument in support of this habit may be:

_“I don’t want to spend money on books I don’t need and the professor
may make last minute changes to the text list.  I may drop the class.  I
therefore won’t buy any books until the second week of classes when I am
sure I like the course syllabus and am sure of the exact books I need.”_

This strategy is poor for three reasons.  First, by week two of the
semester you will likely find that all the good deals on textbooks are
gone.  Second, you may become stressed because you have an urgent need
to obtain your books.  Third, the MSU Spartan bookstore
(_www.spartanbook.com_) and other East Lansing bookstores will be very
crowded in early September, and if you order from elsewhere, suppliers
may be out of stock or shipping may take weeks.

To beat this no-win scenario, recognize the following three facts, which
should allow you to shop with confidence before class begins.

a)    First, not knowing which course texts will be needed until the
first day of class should not be an issue. Via the Schedule of Courses,
the office of the Registrar provides shoppers a big advantage by
providing the MSU Teaching Faculty with online tools to post required
textbook lists well in advance of the first day of class. Cost estimates
are included. Search the MSU Spartan bookstore website or the websites
of other East Lansing booksellers and you should find your books listed.

b)    Second, don’t hold back on buying required textbooks. They are
required for a reason.  As used copies or stock will be available from
last year, you should be able to find most of these books on sale well
before the beginning of semester.

c)    Third, if you pay attention to book return policies, you can
return your books if you ultimately decide to drop a course. Many
textbook supplies have a time-sensitive return policy that gives you a
full refund if your books or other materials are returned in purchase
condition before the policy expires. And keep your receipts!

You hopefully now realize that shopping prior to your first class is a
very feasible and sensible suggestion. You’re now set to investigate the
options for getting the best deal.

2.    THERE ARE MANY OPTIONS FOR BUYING COURSE TEXTS. DETERMINE WHICH
OPTION SUITS YOU BEST BOTH IN TERMS OF YOUR PRICE RANGE AND IN TERMS OF
HOW YOU STUDY.

Traditional Print Textbooks

You can be sure you will find the traditional textbooks for your courses
at the MSU Spartan bookstore, in a bookstore in East Lansing, or via the
Resource Center for People with Disabilities (RCPD)
(_http://www.rcpd.msu.edu/programs/media-access_). You may have to go to
more atypical locations in East Lansing for “Course Packs” or other
collections of printed material. However, if you’re savvy, your options
are not limited simply to buying a new book.

Used books at the bookstores cost about 25% less than new books.  This
is a good deal but it also means used books sell out very quickly. You
may also buy your textbooks from last year’s students, although finding
a course alumnus is problematic because the text may no longer be the
same one used for your section.

If you maintain your books in good condition, the MSU Spartan bookstore
and other East Lansing bookstores may buy back your books at the end of
a semester, but this option is not guaranteed. If the bookstore option
is not available, you may be able to sell your books to another student
who will take the class next year.

Rental Textbooks

One of the newer services offered by the MSU Spartan bookstore is rental
textbooks.  If you rent your textbooks it costs significantly less money
than a full purchase, but read the terms and conditions of your
agreement carefully – financial savings could disappear if you don’t
return your book on time and in good condition at the end of the
semester.

Online Booksellers

Online booksellers offer plenty of books, including rental textbooks –
just search for ‘textbook’ or ‘rental textbook’ and you’ll see lots of
options. However, when purchasing, remember to get the right version of
your textbook (using the ISBN when searching is best) and remember that
shipping involves time and money. Also, for many reasons, buy only from
online sellers located in the USA.

If renting textbooks from an online seller, be sure you understand
exactly what you are getting and what your terms and conditions are. At
the beginning of the semester, rented textbooks will take time to ship
to you, although some may provide a downloadable first chapter of a text
to read while you wait. Like MSU Spartan bookstore rental textbooks,
books from online renters must be returned to the seller by a particular
date, and return shipping takes time. Some online renters offer the
ability to purchase the textbook outright at the end of the semester if
you decide you want to keep it.

A Note on Keeping your Textbooks instead of Selling Them or Renting Them

Some students planning textbook purchases are unsure as to whether they
should keep or part with their textbooks at the end of a semester. This
guide cannot advise you on this dilemma – you have to make your own
decision. However, if you regret parting with a textbook at some point
in the future, we suggest that before re-purchasing the book you visit
the MSU Library. Librarians will be happy to help you rediscover a
subject, including helping you find the older textbooks they have
available on the bookshelves.

Computerized Textbooks

The college campus has been an integral part of the digital information
revolution. If you search the MSU library website you’ll find that
downloadable information is as common as printed material. Textbooks
have not been an exception in this revolution – computerized textbooks
are now available as downloadable file purchases that you can read on
your desktop, laptop, iPad, Kindle, Nook or touch-screen cell phone,
with more devices and options of the way. Some of these devices will
read a textbook aloud so you don’t even have to read – just listen.

A key mission of the MSU research team that made this guide is to gauge
the future of the computerized textbook industry. Our conclusions so far
are that use of current digital textbooks provides many benefits, but
also drawbacks, when compared to traditional books. We’re still studying
the issues, so our current recommendation is that the average student
should continue to use printed material when intensive, analytical
reading and note-taking is required. In any course that you take at MSU,
printed books and other materials will be available via the bookstores
or RCPD for anyone who wants them.

If you are considering digital textbook options, you should be aware of
the following:

a)    Downloadable textbooks or course packs usually include software
security measures that prevent mass file copying. However, these
measures may also prevent both printing the file and saving any changes
made to the file, including the attachment of comments or highlighting.

b)    Find out if any document you download has an expiration date when
the file will no longer be available to you.

c)    The cost of a downloadable textbook may be the same or very
similar to a traditional textbook. Do some research before investing in
an electronic device used just for reading a textbook. It’s not safe to
assume the textbook savings will be significant enough to offset the
cost of the electronic device.

d)    Just because your professor uses a book in a course does not mean
that it has been made into a digital version. In our experience, even
though the biggest sellers of book downloads have hundreds of thousands
of titles available, you still may not find a specific textbook online.

e)    Be careful with downloadable textbook return policies. They
probably don’t exist. You’ll get your book, but all downloads and
payments will be final.

f)    It may be possible to sell your digital textbook to another
student, but it probably will have an expiration date and software that
prevents this type of file transfer (see b above).

If you do decide to go the digital route, the following hardware options
present themselves (in no order of preference or recommendation):

a)    Desktops, Laptops: This is likely the standard viewing platform
for downloaded textbooks for the average student. Apart from being an
integral part of student life, these devices offer the biggest viewing
screens for downloaded textbooks. Tablet laptops may allow you to make
‘handwritten’ notes on your computerized textbook pages.

b)    E-readers: Amazon’s Kindle and the Barnes and Noble Nook are
currently the most popular devices. They are less versatile than the
other types of hardware, but have an easy-read screen, save power, and
are less expensive than a laptop or an Apple iPad.

c)    Apple iPads and other ‘app’-driven devices: Lots of new ‘apps’ are
being created for the iPad that allow for easier reading and note-taking
with electronic files, including textbooks. And yes, if you really need
your textbook at all times, there are apps that allow you to have your
textbooks displayed on your iPhone, Android phone or other mobile
device.

d)    New Devices: New devices that display digital books will
undoubtedly enter the market while you are a student at MSU. This
research team will be evaluating these devices as they develop and will
let you know what we find, but we encourage you to investigate these
technologies a little on your own and determine those that best fit your
needs and budget.

If you’ve decided on hardware, the next step will be to determine which
online textbook source you want to use. This guide is not designed to
recommend any particular source – we expect you figure out what is best
for you. If you’re stuck about where to begin, search online for the
website of the publisher who makes your book – it probably will have a
link to a site that provides the downloadable version.

3.    SAVE ALL YOUR RECEIPTS FOR TAX ACCOUNTING PURPOSES.

In 2009 the Federal government provided tax credits for qualified
college students, including the American Opportunity Credit, the Hope
Credit and the Lifetime Learning Credit
(_http://www.irs.gov/publications/p970/index.html_). Credits were given
if students could prove they had paid college expenses, which included
textbook expenses. We are not tax professionals and thus cannot help you
determine what you can claim on next year’s taxes. However, if a tax
professional determines you are qualified to claim college expenses on
your taxes next year, you will need proof of payment, so keep
all receipts when you buy your textbooks.

4.    DON’T THROW AWAY OR DESTROY YOUR TEXTBOOKS AT THE END OF THE
SEMESTER. INSTEAD, KEEP THEM, SELL THEM, OR, AT THE VERY LEAST, RECYCLE
THEM.

While the occasional student at the end of the semester may express
their frustration with a course by lashing out at their textbook, they
are wasting both money and paper. Textbooks are valuable and may be sold
to bookstores or other students. If you decide that defacing your
textbook is an experience worth more than its sale price, make sure that
afterwards you put your textbook in one of the mixed paper recycling
bins on the MSU campus. That way, fewer resources will be used to create
a new textbook and you’ll feel better not only for venting your anger,
but for doing your part for the environment.

We wish you the best in your textbook and course material purchases at
MSU and trust these guidelines will help you to make better
decisions. We also wish you a successful semester at MSU and a
successful career after you graduate.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
