Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 6: Academic Governance

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 1: Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities at
        Michigan State University
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Graduate
        Students
    -   Article 3: Student Records at Michigan State University
    -   Article 4: Graduate Student Support
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Cases Involving Graduate Student
        Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 6: Academic Governance
    -   Article 7: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document
    -   Article 8: Definitions
    -   History of Approval
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 6: Academic Governance

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 6: ACADEMIC GOVERNANCE


6.1 Graduate student representatives shall participate in academic
governance at the department/school/program, college and University
levels.

6.1.1 At the department/school level, graduate student participation in
the policy-making process shall include, but not necessarily be limited
to, the following:

Graduate curriculum and degree requirements.

Graduate financial aids and awards.

Graduate admissions criteria.

6.1.2 Graduate student representatives shall participate as voting
members on all policy-making committees at the
departmental/school/program and college levels that are directly
concerned with graduate student affairs.

6.1.2.1 The department/school/program advisory committees or their
equivalent, in consultation with representatives of graduate students in
the unit, shall determine which unit-level committees are directly
concerned with graduate student affairs.

6.1.2.2 Each department/school/program and college shall inform its
graduate students in a timely way of the committee positions that
graduate students may hold, the duties and lengths of appointment of
said positions, the processes by which individuals are selected for
appointment, and the names of the appointed representatives.

6.1.3 At the University level, graduate students shall be selected and
shall have voting membership on the University Committee on Graduate
Studies, University Council and other such committees as may be
specified by the Bylaws for Academic Governance.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
