Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 4: Graduate Student Support

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 1: Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities at
        Michigan State University
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Graduate
        Students
    -   Article 3: Student Records at Michigan State University
    -   Article 4: Graduate Student Support
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Cases Involving Graduate Student
        Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 6: Academic Governance
    -   Article 7: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document
    -   Article 8: Definitions
    -   History of Approval
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 4: Graduate Student Support

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 4: GRADUATE STUDENT SUPPORT


4.0 The term “graduate assistant” in this Article refers to graduate
assistants who are not covered by the Graduate Employees Union (GEU)
collective bargaining contract. Employment policies and the issues that
are encompassed by employment and involve students who are included in
the collective bargaining unit shall be covered by the GEU contract.

4.1   CLASSES OF SUPPORT

4.1.1 Students receiving support through the University primarily
constitute three groups:

(a) graduate assistants

(b) University employees

(c) fellowship, scholarship and/or grant recipients

4.2   GRADUATE ASSISTANTS

4.2.1 Graduate assistants are graduate students currently enrolled in
degree programs who are appointed through established University
procedures and in accordance with University policies governing graduate
assistantships. Duties assigned to graduate assistants may include (but
are not limited to) classroom instruction, student advising, writing
supervision, reading of papers and examinations, and research. The
responsibilities delegated to a graduate assistant must be performed
under the supervision of an appropriate faculty member or administrator.

4.2.2 With the participation of graduate student representatives, each
unit appointing graduate assistants shall develop policies and make
available current information covering, but not limited to, the
following:

(a) criteria for selecting new graduate assistants

(b) criteria for renewing and/or continuing graduate assistantships

(c) stipends (see 4.2.4)

(d) stipend advancement and promotion

(e) tax status of stipends (according to IRS policy)

(f) procedures for evaluating performance (see also 2.5.2–2.5.2.4)

(g) length of term of appointment, including continuance and renewal of
graduate assistantships

(h) work load, duties, and vacation schedules

(i) grievance procedures

4.2.3 By April 15th of each calendar year, units shall advise each
graduate assistant in writing of one (or more) of the following:  (a)
the assistantship will be renewed for the following academic year or a
portion thereof; (b) the assistantship will be renewed provided the
assistant is able to meet certain specified conditions; (c) the
assistantship will be renewed provided the unit is able to meet certain
specified conditions; (d) the assistantship will not be renewed for the
following academic year. If the assistantship is not renewed, the
reasons shall be indicated. When citing (b) above, the unit shall
include the date by which the student must satisfactorily complete the
specified criteria and the date by which the unit will notify the
student about its decision to renew the assistantship for the
appropriate semester(s). When citing (c) above, the unit shall include
the date by which it will notify the student about its decision to renew
the assistantship for the appropriate semester(s). Evaluative judgments
about students should be communicated in accordance with guidelines in
2.4.8. (See all Sections 2.5.2–-2.5.2.4.)

4.2.4 The Office of the Provost shall establish a campus-wide policy for
graduate assistant stipends, taking into account (a) the amount of
stipend adequate in relation to the current cost of living, (b) the need
to be competitive with other universities, and (c) the availability of
resources for graduate assistant stipends. (The Office of the Provost
shall consult with the Dean of The Graduate School and the University
Committee on Graduate Studies on graduate assistant stipend levels.)

4.2.5 Graduate assistants are entitled to all benefits normally accorded
to full-time graduate students, except as specified under policies
established in accordance with 4.2.7.

4.2.6 All graduate assistants are entitled to such clerical-secretarial
help and supplies as are commensurate with their assigned
responsibilities and the resources of the unit.

4.2.7 The Office of the Provost, in consultation with the Dean of the
Graduate School and the University Committee on Graduate Studies and
other appropriate, duly authorized authorities, shall review and publish
policies for graduate assistants relating to (a) sick leave, (b) parking
privileges, (c) bus privileges, (d) travel off campus, (e) insurance,
(f) health care, and (g) tuition waivers.

4.2.8 Within the constraints of their training, experience, and
responsibilities, graduate assistants have a right to the same
professional respect as that accorded to regular faculty.

4.3   UNIVERSITY-EMPLOYED GRADUATE STUDENTS

4.3.1 The University’s student employment office shall publish annually
minimum and maximum salaries and hourly wages for University-employed
graduate students. This office shall have the authority to approve unit
requests for all payments above the established maximums.

4.3.2 The University shall not deny a regular employee’s fringe benefits
solely because the person also is registered as a student.

4.3.3 University employees who are pursuing graduate study are bound by
collective bargaining agreements or other applicable University
personnel policies and agreements.

4.3.4 Employment-related grievances of graduate students employed in
non-academic positions should be filed with the employing units under
their respective procedures.

4.4   FELLOWSHIP, SCHOLARSHIP, AND GRANT RECIPIENTS

4.4.1 A graduate student supported by a fellowship, scholarship and/or
grant shall have a right to such information as (a) the responsibilities
and performance required for retention of support, (b) the privileges
and status associated with support, and (c) grievance procedures.

4.5   UNIVERSITY POLICIES RELATING TO GRADUATE STUDENT SUPPORT
RECIPIENTS

4.5.1 Michigan State University is an Affirmative-Action,
Equal-Opportunity Employer. Therefore, employment appointment policies
shall be consistent with anti-discrimination policies of Michigan State
University.

4.5.2 Graduate students shall be informed of all employment policies
when a position is tendered.

4.5.3 The University retains the right to demote, suspend, terminate, or
otherwise discipline graduate students receiving support through the
University for cause and for failure to meet their responsibilities. The
University also retains the right to terminate graduate students’
participation in an academic program, which in turn may terminate the
graduate student’s assistantship or other financial support. Graduate
students who believe they have a grievance under this article may
utilize the judicial procedures outlined in Article 5.

4.5.3.1 In cases where the graduate student contends that action of the
University may cause irreparable harm, the student may appeal to the
appropriate judiciary for an expedited hearing.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
