Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 5: Adjudication of Cases
Involving Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 1: Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities at
        Michigan State University
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Graduate
        Students
    -   Article 3: Student Records at Michigan State University
    -   Article 4: Graduate Student Support
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Cases Involving Graduate Student
        Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 6: Academic Governance
    -   Article 7: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document
    -   Article 8: Definitions
    -   History of Approval
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 5: Adjudication of Cases Involving Graduate Student Rights and
Responsibilities

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 5: ADJUDICATION OF CASES INVOLVING GRADUATE STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES


5.1   JUDICIAL STRUCTURE

Hearing boards shall establish their own procedures in a manner
consistent with this document. A copy of procedures adopted by each unit
shall be filed with the Office of the Ombudsperson and with the Office
of the Dean of the Graduate School.

5.1.1 To promote effective functioning of the system of graduate student
rights and responsibilities, an appropriate judicial structure and
process shall be established for hearing and adjudicating all cases
brought by and against graduate students in the following areas:

(a) Academic rights and responsibilities

(b) Professional rights and duties of graduate assistants not covered by
the Graduate Employees Union collective bargaining contract

(c) Professional rights and duties of other Graduate Students

5.1.2   DEPARTMENT/SCHOOL/PROGRAM HEARING BOARDS. For adjudication to be
conducted at the department/school level the parties shall attempt first
to resolve the problem in informal, direct discussions. If the problem
remains unresolved, adjudication may be handled formally through a
department/school hearing board. The hearing board shall be composed of
equal numbers of faculty and graduate students selected by their
respective groups in accordance with the department/school/program
hearing procedures. If the unit administrator is involved in the case,
the unit administrator may not serve on the hearing board.

5.1.3   COLLEGE GRADUATE HEARING BOARD. Each college shall establish a
judiciary composed of the chair of the college graduate committee or
designee and equal numbers of faculty and graduate students selected by
their respective groups in accordance with college hearing procedures.
Each college shall provide training to its hearing board members.

5.1.4   UNIVERSITY GRADUATE JUDICIARY. A judiciary shall be established
at the University level composed of the Dean of the Graduate School or
designee, who shall serve as chairperson, three elected faculty members
of the University Committee on Graduate Studies, and three graduate
students chosen by the all-university graduate student governing body.

5.1.5 Each hearing board or judiciary shall be chaired by a faculty
member. Each board or judiciary shall provide a suitable number of
alternate members chose in accordance with the procedures established
above.

5.1.6 TERM OF OFFICE. Hearing board or judiciary members at all levels
shall be selected during spring semester for the upcoming summer
semester and shall serve one year. The one-year term shall not preclude
reappointment of any member the following year. Hearing boards and
judiciaries shall establish provisions for filling vacancies, including
making appointments on an interim basis during summer semester.

5.1.7 Members of a hearing board or judiciary involved or possessing
other conflicts of interest in a case at issue shall be disqualified
from sitting on the hearing board or judiciary for that specific case.

(a) An approved alternate member from the appropriate faculty or student
group will replace such person(s) in accordance with established
guidelines.

(b) Either the complainant or respondent may submit to the chair of the
hearing board or judiciary a challenge of board or judiciary members in
instances of alleged conflicts of interest. Such challenges will be
decided by the chair in a timely manner. The decision will be reported
to both parties in writing three (3) class days after rendering a
decision.

(c) Either party may remove a total of two board members, excluding the
chair, without stated cause. The name(s) of the individual(s) must be
transmitted to the chair no later than three (3) class days after
receiving notification of the board’s or judiciary’s membership.

5.2   JURISDICTION OF ALLEGED VIOLATIONS (other than grievances).

5.2.1 Except as specified in this document (particularly in Section
5.1), alleged violations of student group regulations, general student
regulations, or all-University policies as they apply to all students
(undergraduate, graduate, graduate-professional) will be referred to the
appropriate judiciary as outlined in the _Michigan State University
Student Rights and Responsibilities_.

5.3   REDRESS OF GRIEVANCES

5.3.1 With respect to allegations of violation(s) by or against a
graduate student in the areas cited in 5.1.1, where possible, a student
grievant or faculty complainant is encouraged to seek resolution and
redress informally with the appropriate individual(s).

5.3.2 If problems arise in the relationship between instructor and
student, the parties shall attempt first to resolve them in informal,
direct discussions. If the problem remains unresolved, then the student
shall consult with the unit administrator. If still aggrieved, a student
may then submit a formal, written grievance for consideration by an
appropriate hearing board. The formal grievance alleging violations of
academic rights must include a proposed remedy, which could be
implemented by a responsible administrator. The grievant or respondent
may consult with the University Ombudsperson at any stage of the
process.

5.3.3 The University undertakes, within the limits of its resources and
the limits imposed by due respect for the professional rights of the
faculty, to supply an appropriate remedy for legitimate student
grievances that have judicial merit. (See Section 5.4.6.) The limits of
the University’s resources proceed from factors that, while subject to
its influence, are not always subject to its control.

5.3.4 To overcome the presumption of good faith in course instructors’
and graduate committees’ judgments of performance, grievances concerning
academic evaluations must produce facts that provide clear and
convincing evidence that demonstrates that an evaluation was based
entirely or in part upon factors that are inappropriate or irrelevant to
academic performance and applicable professional standards. (See 2.2 as
well as 2.3.11 and 2.4.8.)

5.3.5 Any member of the academic community of Michigan State University
may initiate a grievance involving the rights and responsibilities of
graduate students. Grievances alleging violation of the academic rights
of an undergraduate student by a graduate student shall be heard by the
unit level judiciaries outlined in the _Michigan State University
Student Rights and Responsibilities_.

5.3.6 In submitting a formal grievance to an appropriate hearing board
(see Section 5.3.6.2) alleging violation(s) by or against a graduate
student in the areas cited in 5.1, a grievant must submit a written,
signed statement that specifies with sufficient particularity to justify
proceedings the point(s) forming the basis of the grievance, the
person(s) and/or unit(s) against whom/which the grievance is filed, and
the redress that is sought.

5.3.6.1 Grievances must normally be initiated no later than mid-term of
the semester following the one wherein the alleged violation occurred
(exclusive of summer semester). If the involved instructor or student is
absent from the University during that semester, or if other appropriate
reasons exist, an exception to this provision may be granted by the
appropriate hearing board. If, before the formal grievance procedures
are completed, the involved instructor is no longer employed by the
University, the grievance process may nevertheless proceed.

5.3.6.2 Student grievances alleging violation of academic and
professional rights must be initiated at the lowest administrative level
feasible; normally, the department/school/program. With the approval of
the college dean, departments/schools/program may waive jurisdiction and
refer grievances to the college hearing board. A college dean may
request a change of jurisdiction if the dean has concerns about a fair
hearing.

5.4   JUDICIAL PROCEDURES

5.4.1 Departments/schools/programs and colleges shall review their
hearing board procedures every five (5) years.

5.4.2 Procedures for the adjudication of grievances must proceed in a
timely manner as defined below.

5.4.3 Upon receipt of a request for a formal grievance, the unit
chair/director shall forward a copy of the grievance request to the
chair of the hearing board who in turn shall transmit a copy of the
grievance request within five (5) class days to the hearing board
members and to the respondent.

5.4.4 In urgent cases in which it is alleged that a regulation, or an
administrative decision or action threatens immediate and irreparable
damage to any of the parties involved, the hearing board or judiciary
shall expedite the hearing and final disposition of the case.

5.4.5 A hearing board or judiciary is empowered to act on a request to
direct an individual or unit to discontinue or postpone an
administrative decision or action that threatens immediate and
irreparable damage to any of the parties involved pending final
disposition of the case. The hearing board or judiciary shall expedite
the hearing and final disposition of this urgent case.

5.4.6 A department/school/program or college hearing board shall review
each hearing request for jurisdiction and judicial merit and may then
forward a copy of the request to the appropriate individual(s) and
invite a written response. After considering all submitted information,
the board may:

a. Accept the request, in full or in part, and proceed to schedule a
hearing.

b. Reject the request and provide an appropriate explanation.

c. Invite all parties to meet with the board for an informal discussion
of the issues. Such a discussion shall not preclude a later hearing.

5.4.7 NOTICE OF HEARING. At least five (5) class days prior to a formal
hearing, both the respondent and the grievant shall be sent a written
notification of hearing from the appropriate hearing body. This notice
of hearing shall state:

a. The nature of the issues, charges, and/or conflicts to be heard with
sufficient particularity to enable both the respondent and the grievant
to prepare their respective cases.

b. The time and place of the hearing.

c. The body adjudicating the case and the names of the members that make
up the body, including the names of all alternate members.

d. The names of the respondent and grievant.

5.4.7.1 At least three (3) class days before the hearing, the parties
shall provide the chair of the hearing board with the names of their
witnesses (if any) and advisor (if any). The chair of the hearing board
shall forward this information to both parties to the hearing.

5.4.8 Either the grievant or the respondent may request, with cause, a
postponement prior to the scheduled time of a hearing. The hearing board
may grant or deny such a request.

5.4.9 Both the respondent and the complainant shall be expected to
appear at the hearing and present their cases to the hearing board.

a. Should the grievant fail to appear, the hearing board may either
postpone the hearing or dismiss the case.

b. Should the respondent fail to appear, the hearing board may either
postpone the hearing or, only in unusual circumstances, hear the case in
his or her absence.

c. The hearing board may accept written statements from a party to the
hearing in lieu of a personal appearance, but only in unusual
circumstances. Such written statements must be submitted to the
judiciary at least three (3) days prior to the scheduled hearing.

5.4.10 Hearing boards shall ensure that a collegial atmosphere prevails
in grievance hearings. Either party shall have the right to be
accompanied by an advisor (see definition in Article 8).  Permission
will be granted to the respondent to be accompanied by an attorney if
there are criminal charges pending.

5.4.10.1 The advisor may be present throughout the hearing but has no
voice in the hearing unless the chair of the hearing board grants the
advisor permission to participate.

5.4.10.2 During the hearing, parties to a grievance shall have an
opportunity to state their cases, present evidence, designate witnesses,
ask questions, and present a rebuttal.

5.4.10.3 Witnesses must be members of the University community, unless
the hearing board determines that they have direct knowledge of the
alleged behavior in question. Witnesses may be present in the hearing
only when testifying.  Witnesses may submit written statements to the
hearing board in lieu of attending only with the written permission of
the chair of the hearing board. Expert or character witnesses are
generally not allowed. The hearing board may limit the number of
witnesses.

5.4.10.4 Hearings are closed unless the student requests an open
hearing. An open hearing is open to any member of the University
community. The hearing board may close an open hearing to maintain order
or protect the confidentiality of information.

5.4.11 The hearing board shall prepare a written report of findings and
rationale for the decision and shall forward copies to the parties
involved, to the responsible administrator(s), to the University
Ombudsperson, and to the Dean of the Graduate School. The report shall
indicate the major elements of evidence, or lack thereof that support
the hearing board’s decision. All recipients are expected to respect the
confidentiality of this report. When a hearing board finds that a
violation of academic rights has occurred and that redress is possible,
it shall direct the responsible administrator to provide redress. The
administrator, in consultation with the hearing board, shall implement
an appropriate remedy.

5.4.12 APPEALS. The decision of the original hearing board may be
appealed by either party to a grievance only to the next level hearing
board. If the original hearing was by a department/school/program
hearing board, the appeal shall be made to the college hearing board. If
the original hearing was by a college hearing board, the appeal should
be made to the University Graduate Judiciary.

5.4.12.1 Appeals must allege either that applicable procedures for
adjudicating the case were not followed in the previous hearing or that
the findings of the hearing board were not supported by the facts that
provided clear and convincing evidence. (Presentation of new information
will normally be inappropriate at an appeal hearing.)

5.4.12.2 All appeals must be written and signed and must specify the
alleged defects in the previous adjudication(s) in sufficient
particularity to justify further proceedings. The appeal must also
specify the redress that is sought.

5.4.12.3 Appeals must be filed with the chair of the appropriate
appellate board (i.e., a college hearing board or the University
Graduate Judiciary) within five (5) class days following a notice of a
decision. The original decision shall be held in abeyance while under
appeal.

5.4.12.4 An appellate board (i.e., a college hearing board or the
University Graduate Judiciary) shall review each appeal request and may
then forward a copy of the request to the appropriate individual(s) and
invite a written response. After considering all submitted information,
the appellate board may:

a. decide that sufficient reasons for an appeal do not exist and that
the decision of the lower hearing body shall stand;

b. direct the lower hearing body to rehear the case or to reconsider or
clarify its decision; or

c. decide that sufficient reasons exist for an appeal and accept the
request, in full or in part, and proceed to schedule an appeal hearing.

5.4.12.4.1 Following an appeal hearing, an appellate board may affirm,
reverse, or modify the decision of the lower hearing body.

5.4.13 RECONSIDERATION. Each judiciary or hearing board shall make
provision to allow the parties to a grievance to request reconsideration
of a case within thirty (30) days if it is determined that new
information has arisen. An exception to the time provision may be
granted by the appropriate judiciary or hearing board.

5.5   ACADEMIC DISMISSAL AND ACADEMIC DISCIPLINARY CASES

5.5.1 In cases in which a student is charged with academic misconduct
and the student’s dean has notified the student, in writing, of the
charge and requested an academic disciplinary hearing, the complaint
will be forwarded to the Dean of the Graduate School.

5.5.2 Upon receiving the request for an academic disciplinary hearing,
the Dean of the Graduate School (or designee) shall promptly notify the
student that s/he is required to meet with the Dean of the Graduate
School (or designee) to discuss the alleged academic misconduct and
review the academic disciplinary hearing process. (See 5.5.4 and 5.5.5.)

5.5.2.1 At this time, the Dean of the Graduate School (or designee) will
also inform the student of his or her right to contest the allegation
before the relevant department/school/college hearing board.

5.5.2.2 The student shall have ten (10) class days to request an
academic grievance hearing to contest a penalty grade, or to contest a
failure to pass comprehensive exams based on academic misconduct, or any
other charge of academic or professional standards misconduct.  If the
student files a request for a grievance hearing, the student will not
meet with the Dean of the Graduate School (or designee) until the
unit-level hearing board has heard the student’s academic grievance and
all appeals, if any, are final. If the hearing board determines that the
student did not commit academic misconduct, the student will not face
any additional sanctions based on that charge.

5.5.2.3 In such a hearing, the burden of proof shall rest upon the
instructor or guidance committee (for comprehensive exams) whose prior
assignment of the penalty grade will constitute a charge of academic
misconduct. The hearing board shall proceed in compliance with
applicable University and/or unit academic legislation on the integrity
of scholarship, grades, and professional standards; and the procedural
and appeal provisions of this document shall apply.

5.5.3 In cases in which the student’s dean (or designee) has requested
an academic disciplinary hearing for a complaint involving the violation
of professional standards, the Dean of the Graduate School (or designee)
will meet with the student to determine the appropriate college hearing
board for the hearing and review of the academic disciplinary process.

5.5.4 In cases in which the student’s dean (or designee) has requested
an academic disciplinary hearing for a complaint involving academic
misconduct other than a violation of professional standards, the Dean of
the Graduate School (or designee) will meet with the student to discuss
the allegations and ask the student to select either an administrative
hearing conducted by the Dean of the Graduate School (or designee) or a
disciplinary hearing conducted by the appropriate college hearing board.
If the student chooses to have a college hearing, the Dean of the
Graduate School (or designee) will forward the complaint to the chair of
the appropriate college hearing board. If the student requests an
administrative hearing, the Dean of the Graduate School (or designee)
will proceed with the hearing.

5.5.5 A student who admits his/her academic misconduct to the Dean of
the Graduate School (or designee) waives the right to a hearing to
contest the allegation. In such a situation, the Dean of the Graduate
School (or designee) shall impose an appropriate redress or sanction for
the academic misconduct. The student may appeal the appropriateness of
the sanction/redress imposed to the Provost within five (5) class days
(see 5.4.12.3).

5.5.6 If a student fails to meet with the Dean of the Graduate School
(or designee) when so required by this document, the academic misconduct
complaint will be referred to the appropriate college hearing board.

5.5.7 In cases of ambiguous jurisdiction, the Dean of the Graduate
School will select the appropriate judiciary.

5.5.8 The academic disciplinary sanctions imposed on a student should be
based on a consideration of all circumstances in a particular case,
including the student’s prior record of academic misconduct, if any.
Such sanctions may include one or more of the following:

WARNING: An official written statement expressing disapproval of the
behavior and notifying the student that it must not recur.

PROBATION: An official written statement establishing a period of time
for observing and evaluating a student’s conduct and indicating that
further academic misconduct may result in more severe disciplinary
action. This probation may be accompanied by stipulations, including,
but not limited to, restitution, participation in an educational
program, or the loss of specified privileges.

RESTITUTION: A requirement that a student pay for property damages or
losses resulting from acts committed by the student, with the date by
which the restitution must be completed.

OTHER: The student may be required to participate in an educational
program deemed appropriate to a specific case or set of behaviors or
lose specified University privileges.

SUSPENSION: A suspension is temporary removal from the University or a
department/school/college for a particular period of time, at the
conclusion of which the student is eligible to apply for readmission. A
suspension may also be a conditional suspension, in which case the
student must demonstrate that he/she has fulfilled stated conditions
prior to applying for readmission.

DISMISSAL: A dismissal is a permanent removal from the University or a
school/college.

Only the University Graduate Judiciary and the Dean of the Graduate
School may impose the sanctions of suspension or dismissal from the
University. Only the dean of the relevant college and the University
Graduate Judiciary may impose the sanction of suspension or dismissal
from a school/college.

5.6 When sanctions other than or in addition to a penalty grade are
involved, the college hearing board has original jurisdiction, and the
University Graduate Judiciary has appellate jurisdiction over academic
dismissals and disciplinary cases against graduate students relating to
academic misconduct.

5.7 The University Graduate Judiciary is the final hearing body within
the judicial structure related to graduate academic rights and
responsibilities, in cases that were initiated at the college level.

5.7.1 The University Graduate Judiciary shall have available to it the
full range of decisions provided to hearing boards through this
document. In addition, the University Graduate Judiciary may make
whatever recommendations it may consider appropriate to specific cases.
When the Judiciary finds that a violation of academic rights has
occurred and that redress is possible, the Judiciary shall direct the
responsible administrator to provide redress. The administrator, in
consultation with the University Graduate Judiciary, shall implement an
appropriate remedy.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
