Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 8: Definitions

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 1: Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities at
        Michigan State University
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Graduate
        Students
    -   Article 3: Student Records at Michigan State University
    -   Article 4: Graduate Student Support
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Cases Involving Graduate Student
        Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 6: Academic Governance
    -   Article 7: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document
    -   Article 8: Definitions
    -   History of Approval
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 8: Definitions

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 8: DEFINITIONS


8.1 Various terms appearing in other Articles of this document are
defined below.

8.1.1 ACADEMIC DISCIPLINARY CASE: A case brought against a student
accused of academic misconduct involving sanctions other than or in
addition to a penalty grade.

8.1.2 ACADEMIC MISCONDUCT: Instances of academic dishonesty, violations
of professional standards, and falsification of academic records or
records for admission to a department/school/program/college. See also
General Student Regulation 1.00, Scholarship and Grades; Integrity of
Scholarships and Grades Policy.

8.1.3 ADMINISTRATORS: University employees who manage University
budgets, direct work units, or formulate, evaluate, and/or administer
University policy.

8.1.4 ADVISOR: A member of the student body, faculty, or staff of the
University chosen by a party to assist in the preparation of a case.

8.1.5 ALL-UNIVERSITY GRADUATE STUDENT GOVERNING BODY: Council of
Graduate Students (COGS).

8.1.6 CLASS DAY: A day on which classes are held, including the days of
Final Exam Week but excluding weekends.

8.1.7 CLEAR AND CONVINCING EVIDENCE: Evidence that reaches the standard
of being more highly probable to be true than not true and for which
hearing board members have a firm belief in its factuality.

8.1.8 COMPLAINANT: A member of the University community who initiates a
judicial proceeding under this document. A student complainant is a
grievant.

8.1.9 FACULTY: All persons appointed by the University to the rank of
professor, associate professor, assistant professor, or instructor, all
persons appointed by the University as librarians, and all other
University employees with approved titles in the academic personnel
system whose duties involve instructional activities.

8.1.9.1 REGULAR FACULTY: All persons appointed under the rules of tenure
and holding the rank of professor, associate professor, assistant
professor, or instructor, and persons appointed as librarians. In
addition, the principal administrative officer of each major educational
and research unit of the University shall be a member of the “regular
faculty”.

8.1.10 FALSIFICATION OF ADMISSION OR ACADEMIC RECORDS: Falsification of
any record submitted for admission to the University or an academic unit
of the University. Falsification of any record created, used, and/or
maintained by the Office of the Registrar, the Office of Admissions, or
academic units (e.g. colleges, departments, programs, and schools).

8.1.11 GOOD CAUSE: Good cause includes, but is not limited to,
circumstances outside of a party’s control, such as illness, death in
the family, or a class conflict.

8.1.12 GRADUATE STUDENT: A graduate student enrolled in a master’s,
doctoral, or educational specialist program or in a graduate non-degree
program, including Lifelong Education.

8.1.13 GRADUATE-PROFESSIONAL (MEDICAL OR LAW) STUDENT: A graduate
student enrolled in a medical degree program in the College of Human
Medicine, College of Osteopathic Medicine, or College of Veterinary
Medicine. Those students who are enrolled in graduate-professional
non-degree programs, including Lifelong Education, shall be deemed
graduate-professional students.

8.1.14 HEARING BODY: A duly constituted hearing board or judiciary as
described in this document.

8.1.15 NEW INFORMATION: Relevant information or documents previously
unavailable to a party to a proceeding, although the party acted with
due diligence to obtain such information.

8.1.16 NON-ACADEMIC DISCIPLINARY CASE: A case brought against a student
accused of violating a General Student Regulation, University ordinance,
or University policy. Such a case is heard pursuant to the _Michigan
State University Student Rights and Responsibilities_ document.

8.1.17 OMBUDSPERSON: The University Ombudsperson is a senior faculty
member or executive  manager who assists members of the MSU community in
resolving complaints or concerns confidentially, informally,
impartially, and independently.

8.1.18 PENALTY GRADE: A grade assigned to a student by a faculty member
based on a charge of academic misconduct.

8.1.19 PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS: Codes of expected professional conduct,
including University-approved honor codes.

8.1.20 RESPONDENT: An individual or group against whom or which a
grievance is filed.

8.1.21 STAFF: Employees of the University other than administrators or
faculty.

8.1.22 STUDENT: An individual is considered a student from the time he
or she attends his/her first class until graduation, recess, dismissal,
suspension, or withdrawal from the University, or he/she fails to
register for more than one consecutive semester. An individual is
considered a graduate student from the time he or she begins
participation in official graduate programs or activities.

8.1.23 UNDERGRADUATE: A student enrolled in a program leading to a
bachelor’s degree or in an undergraduate non-degree program, including
Lifelong Education.

8.1.24 UNIVERSITY COMMUNITY: All University students, Trustees,
administrators, faculty, and staff.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
