Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 7: Procedure for Amending and
Revising this Document

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 1: Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities at
        Michigan State University
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Graduate
        Students
    -   Article 3: Student Records at Michigan State University
    -   Article 4: Graduate Student Support
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Cases Involving Graduate Student
        Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 6: Academic Governance
    -   Article 7: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document
    -   Article 8: Definitions
    -   History of Approval
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 7: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 7: PROCEDURE FOR AMENDING AND REVISING THIS DOCUMENT


7.1 Any member of the Michigan State University community may initiate a
proposal to amend or revise this document.

7.1.1 A graduate student shall submit such a proposal to the
all-University graduate student governing body for approval. The
all-University graduate student governing body may approve the proposal
by a majority vote of the members present. If approved, the proposal,
with recommendation for its adoption, shall be submitted to the
University Committee on Graduate Studies through the all-University
graduate student governing body’s regular representatives.

7.1.2 A faculty member shall submit such a proposal to the college’s
graduate committee for its approval. The college graduate committee may
approve the proposal by a majority vote of the members present. If
approved, the proposal, with a recommendation for its adoption, shall be
submitted to the University Committee on Graduate Studies through the
college’s regular representative(s).

7.1.3 Any other member of the Michigan State University community (not a
graduate student or a regular faculty member) may submit a proposal to
the Graduate School for transmission to the University Committee on
Graduate Studies.

7.2 All proposals to amend or revise this document must be approved by
both the all-University graduate student governing body and the
University Committee on Graduate Studies by a majority vote of the
members present, unless there is a legal reason to immediately revise
this document to comply with State or federal laws.

7.3 If approved by the University Committee on Graduate Studies and by
the all-University graduate student governing body, the proposal, with
recommendations for its approval, shall be submitted to the University
Council.

7.4 The University Council shall review all amendments and revisions and
either approve or reject them in accordance with the Bylaws for Academic
Governance. A proposed amendment or revision that is rejected by
the University Council shall be returned to the University Committee
on Graduate Studies and to the all-University graduate student governing
body along with a written explanation for the rejection. This
explanation may include suggestions for alteration of the proposal. A
proposed amendment or revision that is approved by the University
Council shall be forwarded to the President, who shall present it to the
Board of Trustees.

7.5 The Board of Trustees shall review all amendments and revisions and
may approve the proposal, at which time it shall become operative unless
the Board specifies a different date, or reject the proposal and return
it to the University Council with an explanation.

7.6 The University community shall be promptly informed of all action
taken on proposed amendments and revisions.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
