Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 2: Academic Rights and
Responsibilities for Graduate Students

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 1: Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities at
        Michigan State University
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Graduate
        Students
    -   Article 3: Student Records at Michigan State University
    -   Article 4: Graduate Student Support
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Cases Involving Graduate Student
        Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 6: Academic Governance
    -   Article 7: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document
    -   Article 8: Definitions
    -   History of Approval
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Graduate Students

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 2: ACADEMIC RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES FOR GRADUATE STUDENTS


2.1   PREAMBLE

2.1.1 The establishment and maintenance of the proper relationship
between instructor and student are fundamental to the University’s
function and require both instructor and student to recognize the rights
and responsibilities that derive from it. The relationship between
instructor and student as individuals should be founded on mutual
respect and understanding together with shared dedication to the
educational process.

2.2   ROLE OF THE FACULTY IN THE INSTRUCTIONAL PROCESS

2.2.1 No provision for the rights of graduate students can be valid that
suspends the rights of the faculty. The graduate student’s right to
competent instruction must be reconciled with the rights of the faculty,
consistent with the principle that the competency of a professional can
be rightly judged only by professionals. It is therefore acknowledged
and mandated that competence of instruction shall be judged by the
faculty.

2.2.2 Colleges and departments/schools shall provide appropriate and
clearly defined channels for the receipt and consideration of graduate
student complaints concerning instruction. In no instance shall the
competence of instruction form the basis of an adversarial proceeding
before any of the judicial bodies established in this document.

2.2.3 Faculty shall have authority and responsibility for academic
policy and practices in areas such as degree eligibility and
requirements, course content and grading, classroom procedure, and
standards of professional behavior in accordance with the _Bylaws for
Academic Governance_, the _Code of Teaching Responsibility_, and other
documents on faculty rights and responsibilities.

2.2.4 No hearing board established under this document shall direct a
change in the evaluation of a graduate student that represents a course
instructor’s or guidance committee’s good faith judgment of the graduate
student’s performance. In the event that an evaluation is determined to
be based on inappropriate or irrelevant factors, the dean of the college
shall cause the student’s performance to be reassessed and good faith
evaluation established. (See also Sections 2.3.10, 2.4.8, and Article
5.)

2.3   RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE GRADUATE STUDENT

2.3.1 In all areas of graduate education, faculty and students shall
comply with the MSU Anti-Discrimination Policy.

2.3.2 The graduate student has a right to be governed by written
academic regulations. The graduate student has a right to accurate,
timely, and clearly stated information concerning the general academic
requirements for establishing and maintaining an acceptable academic
standing, the graduate student’s academic relationship with the
University, and the details of any special conditions that may apply.
Requirements for the student’s academic program and written academic
regulations, including codes of professional behavior, shall be made
known and made available by the administering unit at the time of the
student’s first enrollment. Graduate students are responsible for
informing themselves of University, college, department, and school
requirements as stated in unit publications and in the University
catalog. In planning to meet such requirements, students are responsible
for consulting with their academic advisers and guidance committees.

2.3.3 The graduate student, regardless of degree program, has a right to
receive accurate information. Faculty will strive to provide the best
advice possible concerning program planning, research, professional
expectations, selection of courses and professors, and general degree
requirements.

2.3.4 Units shall maintain records for their graduate students,
specifying and/or containing degree requirements, course waivers and
substitutions, program changes, and other stipulations directly
affecting their degree programs. Graduate students shall be provided
access to and/or a copy of these records upon request.

2.3.5 The graduate student shall be free to take reasoned exception to
information and views offered in instructional contexts and to reserve
judgment about matters of opinion, without fear of penalty or reprisal.

2.3.6 Graduate students and faculty share the responsibility of
maintaining classroom decorum and a collegial atmosphere that ensures
teaching and learning.

2.3.7 The graduate student shares with the faculty the responsibility
for maintaining the integrity of scholarship, grades, and professional
standards.

2.3.8 The graduate student is responsible for learning the content of a
course of study according to standards of performance established by the
faculty and for adhering to standards of professional behavior
established by the faculty.

2.3.9 The graduate student has a right to academic evaluations that
represent good faith judgments of performance by course instructors and
guidance committees. Course grades shall represent the instructor’s
professional and objective evaluation of the graduate student’s academic
performance. The graduate student shall have the right to know all
course requirements, including grading criteria and procedures, at the
beginning of the course. (See also the _Code of Teaching
Responsibility_.)

2.3.10 The graduate student has a right to protection against improper
disclosure of information concerning academic performance and personal
characteristics, such as values, beliefs, organizational affiliations,
and health. (See also Article 3.)

2.3.11 Graduate students and faculty members share the responsibility
for maintaining professional relationships based on mutual trust and
civility.

2.3.12 Graduate students have a right to be protected from personal
exploitation and to receive recognition for scholarly assistance to
faculty.

2.4   ACADEMIC PROGRAMMING

2.4.1 The department/school or college is responsible for informing, in
writing, all incoming graduate students of program requirements and
procedures.

2.4.2 GUIDANCE COMMITTEE. It shall be the responsibility of each
graduate student admitted to a doctoral program or to a master’s program
that requires a guidance committee to form a guidance committee with the
concurrence of the unit chairperson/director or designated
representative. Composition of the guidance committee will be in accord
with University, college, and department/school guidelines. In the event
that a student is unable to form a guidance committee, it shall be the
responsibility of the unit chairperson/director to intervene with the
faculty of the unit to resolve the problem.

2.4.2.1 For graduate students in doctoral programs, the guidance
committee shall be formed within the first two semesters of doctoral
study, or within two semesters beyond the master’s degree or its
equivalent. Within one semester after the committee is formed, the
chairperson of the guidance committee shall file a guidance committee
report with the dean of the college, listing all degree requirements. A
copy of this guidance committee report shall also be given to the
graduate student. This guidance committee report, as changed or amended
in full consultation between the graduate student and the committee and
as approved by the appropriate department chairperson or school director
and the dean of the college, shall be regarded as the statement of
program requirements. The program will not be considered binding unless
signed by the student.

2.4.2.2 Once designated, the guidance committee has the responsibility
to meet periodically to oversee the graduate student’s progress as long
as the graduate student continues in good standing. Any desired or
required changes in the membership of the guidance committee may be made
by the graduate student with the concurrence of the unit
chairperson/director or designated representative, or by the unit with
the concurrence of the graduate student, in accordance with University,
college, and unit policy. The guidance committee, with the concurrence
of the graduate student, may form a thesis/dissertation committee to
supersede or supplement the guidance committee. Committee or
thesis/dissertation chairpersons on leave shall provide for the
necessary guidance of their advisees during their absence.

2.4.3 RESIDENCY. Academic residency requirements and residency fee
policies shall be made known to the graduate student at the time of
admission.

2.4.4 TIME LIMITS. The time limitations for candidates seeking advanced
degrees shall be made known to the graduate student at the time of first
enrollment. Application for extension shall be submitted to the
department/school and transmitted for approval by the dean of the
college.

2.4.5 PROGRAM CHANGES. Each department/school or college shall establish
procedures for altering individual student programs that have been
approved in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.4.2.1. Graduate
students shall be involved in developing such procedures. (See also
Section 6.1.1.)

2.4.6 DISSERTATION AND THESIS. The nature and scope of the doctoral
dissertation and master’s thesis (or its equivalent) shall be defined by
the department/school or college and the guidance or dissertation
committee according to the professional and scholarly research standards
of the discipline. The department/school or college shall specify in
advance the acceptable style and form of the dissertation or thesis in
accordance with _The Graduate School Guide to the Preparation of
Master’s Theses and Doctoral Dissertations_.

2.4.6.1 Standards for formatting, duplicating and binding of
dissertations and theses – as well as the stipulations covering
abstracts, numbers of copies, dates and deadlines for acceptance, and
regulations for microfilming and publication – shall be established and
published by The Graduate School.

2.4.7 CODE OF PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS. Each department/school and college
shall communicate in writing to its graduate students, at the time of
their first enrollment in a degree program or in a course in the unit,
any specific codes of professional and academic standards covering the
conduct expected of them.

2.4.8   EVALUATION. Graduate students have a right to periodic
evaluations to assess their academic progress, performance, and
professional potential. Evaluation of graduate students shall be made
only by persons who are qualified to make that evaluation. Written
descriptions of unit/program methods of evaluation and the general
rationale employed shall be provided to graduate students and the
faculty. Written evaluations shall be communicated to the graduate
student at least once a year, and a copy of such evaluations shall be
placed in the graduate student’s file. (See also Section 2.5.2.4.)

2.4.8.1 When determination is made that a graduate student’s progress or
performance is unsatisfactory, the student shall be notified in writing
in a timely manner, and a copy of the notice shall be placed in the
student’s academic file.

2.4.8.2 When a graduate student’s status in a program has been
determined to be in jeopardy, the graduate student shall be informed in
writing in a timely manner, and a copy of the notice shall be placed in
the student’s academic file.

2.4.9   DISMISSALS AND WITHDRAWALS. Each department/school and college
shall establish criteria for the dismissal or withdrawal of students
enrolled in its programs. Such criteria shall be published and given to
students at the time they begin their programs. Should a decision to
dismiss a student be made, the affected student shall be notified in
writing in a timely manner. All information regarding the decision is to
be held in strict confidence between the student and those faculty and
administrators with responsibility for the student, on a need to know
basis; release may be only with the written consent of the student
involved unless the decision becomes the substance for a grievance
procedure, in which case such information shall be released to the
grievance committee. All records and information created under this
article shall be released only in accordance with the University’s
published policies governing privacy and release of student records. The
same privacy is to be accorded the reasons for a student’s temporary or
permanent withdrawal from the University.  Should a decision to dismiss
be held in abeyance, pending completion of the stipulated conditions,
these conditions must be communicated in writing in a timely manner to
the student.

2.5   EDUCATIONAL TRAINING OF GRADUATE STUDENTS IN TEACHING ROLES (NOT
COVERED BY THE GRADUATE EMPLOYEES UNION COLLECTIVE BARGAINING CONTRACT).

2.5.1 Colleges and department/schools are responsible for establishing
orientation and in-service training programs for all graduate students
in teaching roles. Such programs shall include an introduction to course
goals, grading criteria and practice, and classroom procedures as well
as periodic classroom visitation. The graduate student in a teaching
role is held responsible for full and active participation in all such
programs.

2.5.2 Graduate students who are involved in teaching roles are expected
to fulfill their assigned responsibilities at a high level of
performance. To gain feedback for monitoring and increasing their
teaching effectiveness, such graduate students shall use, where
applicable, confidential instructional rating reports in each course
that they teach. These reports shall be submitted to the unit in
accordance with the stated policy of the University Council.

2.5.2.1 The coordinator of each course staffed by graduate students in
teaching roles shall submit each semester to the unit administrator or
to the appropriate unit committee a formal written evaluation of each of
the graduate students in teaching roles. After notifying the graduate
student, appropriate members of the college/department/school should
visit and observe the student’s teaching in the instructional setting,
and information from these visits and observations should be used in the
evaluation.

2.5.2.2 The graduate student instructional rating reports (or summaries
thereof), formal written evaluations, and any supplementary information
shall be placed in a confidential file for use by the student and by
faculty members in accordance with 2.5.2.3. This material shall remain
on active file until the graduate student’s teaching role is terminated,
after which a copy of the file becomes the graduate student’s personal
property upon request. If evaluations or summaries of them are kept
beyond the student’s tenure at the University, these records should be
altered so as to be anonymous.

2.5.2.3 Evaluation material described in 2.5.2.2 may be used in overall
evaluations and in determining such matters as renewal of
assistantships, teaching assignments, recommendations, and the need for
further training.

2.5.2.4 An evaluation of teaching shall be given to the graduate student
who has a teaching role at least once each year. (See also 2.4.8.)

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
