Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 1: Graduate Student Rights and
Responsibilities at Michigan State University

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 1: Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities at
        Michigan State University
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Graduate
        Students
    -   Article 3: Student Records at Michigan State University
    -   Article 4: Graduate Student Support
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Cases Involving Graduate Student
        Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 6: Academic Governance
    -   Article 7: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document
    -   Article 8: Definitions
    -   History of Approval
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 1: Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities at Michigan
State University

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 1: GRADUATE STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES AT MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY


1.1   Michigan State University is a community of scholars whose members
include its faculty, staff, students, and administrators. The basic
purposes of the University are the advancement, dissemination and
application of knowledge. The most basic condition for the achievement
of these purposes is freedom of expression and communication. Without
this freedom, effective sifting and testing of ideas cease, and
research, teaching, and learning are stifled. Knowledge is as broad and
diverse as life itself, and the need for freedom is equally broad. Yet
absolute freedom in all aspects of life means anarchy, just as absolute
order means tyranny. Both anarchy and tyranny are antithetical to the
purposes and necessities of the University. Therefore, the University
always must strive to strike that balance between maximum freedom and
necessary order that best promotes the University’s basic purposes by
providing an environment most conducive to the many faceted activities
of instruction, research, and service.

1.2   Each right of an individual places a reciprocal responsibility
upon others: the responsibility to permit the individual to exercise the
right. The graduate student, as a member of the academic community, has
both rights and responsibilities. Within that community, the graduate
student’s most essential right is the right to learn. The University has
a duty to provide for the graduate student those privileges,
opportunities and protections that best promote the learning process in
all its aspects. The graduate student has duties to other members of the
academic community, the most important of which is to refrain from
interference with those rights of others which are equally essential to
the purposes and processes of the University.

1.3   Regulations governing the activities and conduct of graduate
students individually or collectively should not be comprehensive codes
of desirable conduct; rather, they should be limited to the prescription
of procedures for meeting the practical, routine necessities of a
complex community and to the prohibition or limitations of acts that
cannot be tolerated because they seriously interfere with the basic
purposes and processes of the academic community, or with rights
essential to other members of the community.

1.4   The graduate student is not only a member of the academic
community, but also a citizen of the larger society who retains those
rights, protections, and guarantees of fair treatment held by all
citizens, which the University may not deny. The enforcement of the
graduate student’s duties to the larger society is, however, the
responsibility of the legal and judicial authorities duly established
for that purpose.

GUIDELINES

1.5   To protect graduate student rights and to facilitate the
definition of graduate student responsibilities at Michigan State
University, the following guidelines shall apply to those stipulations
and conditions by which graduate student conduct is regulated, broadly
referred to as “regulations” in the remainder of this Article.

1.5.1   There shall be no regulation unless there is a demonstrable need
that is reasonably related to the basic purposes and necessities of the
University as stipulated herein.

1.5.2   To the maximum extent feasible, graduate students shall
participate in formulating and revising regulations governing graduate
student rights and responsibilities.

1.5.3   All regulations governing graduate student rights and
responsibilities shall be made public in an appropriate manner.

1.5.4   Every regulation shall be as brief, clear, and specific as
possible.

1.5.5   Wherever rights conflict, regulations shall, to the maximum
extent feasible, permit reasonable scope for each conflicting right by
defining the circumstances of time, place, and means appropriate to its
exercise.

1.5.6   Regulations shall respect the free expression of ideas and shall
encourage competition of ideas from diverse perspectives.

1.5.7   Procedures and penalties for the violation of regulations shall
be designed for guidance or correction of behavior only.

1.5.8   Penalties shall be commensurate with the seriousness of the
offense. Repeated violations may justify increasingly severe penalties.

1.5.9   There shall be clearly defined channels and procedures for the
appeal and review of:

a. The finding of a violation of a regulation.

b. The reasonableness, under the circumstances, of the penalty imposed
for a specific violation.

c. The substance of a regulation or administrative decision that is
alleged to be inconsistent with the guidelines in this document.

d. The lack of adherence to the applicable procedures in the
adjudication.

1.5.10   Every regulation shall specify to whom it applies and whether
responsibility for compliance lies with graduate students either
individually or collectively.

1.6   A handbook of the University’s current regulations and structures
relating to student rights and responsibilities shall be made available
to every member of the academic community.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
