Spartan Life Student Handbook - Article 3: Student Records at Michigan
State University

Skip to main content

[Michigan State University] [Your Site Name Here]

-   Spartan Life Welcome Letter
-   The Character and Goals of MSU
-   Division of Student Affairs and Services
-   Information and Services
-   Rights and Responsibilities
-   Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 1: Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities at
        Michigan State University
    -   Article 2: Academic Rights and Responsibilities for Graduate
        Students
    -   Article 3: Student Records at Michigan State University
    -   Article 4: Graduate Student Support
    -   Article 5: Adjudication of Cases Involving Graduate Student
        Rights and Responsibilities
    -   Article 6: Academic Governance
    -   Article 7: Procedure for Amending and Revising this Document
    -   Article 8: Definitions
    -   History of Approval
-   Law Student Rights and Responsibilities
-   Medical Student Rights and Responsibilities (MSRR)
-   Spartan Code of Honor Academic Pledge
-   Regulations


Search Spartan Life

Search Spartan Life:

Spartan Life Student Handbook

> Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities

> Article 3: Student Records at Michigan State University

[Click here to print this page]



ARTICLE 3: STUDENT RECORDS AT MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY


3.1 Achieving educational goals, providing direction to graduate
students, and extending service to society demand that the University
keep records. All policies and practices concerning records shall be
based on respect for the privacy of the individual graduate student as
well as current federal and State law.

3.1.1 Because of respect for the privacy of the individual graduate
student, record keeping must be performed only by University personnel
whose job responsibilities require record keeping.

3.2 All policies and practices governing access to, and maintenance and
release of, graduate student records shall conform to the University’s
published guidelines. (See the _MSU Access to Student Information_
policy
at _https://reg.msu.edu/AcademicPrograms/Text.aspx?Section=112#s542_).

3.2.1 No record shall be made, reproduced, or retained unless there is a
demonstrable need for it that is reasonably related to the basic
purposes and necessities of the University.

3.2.2 The University shall not make, reproduce, or retain records of a
graduate student’s religious or political beliefs or affiliations
without the graduate student’s knowledge and consent.

3.2.3 Graduate students shall have the right to inspect any of their own
educational records, except as waived by the graduate student (e.g.,
confidential letters of recommendation). Student educational records
include official transcripts, student disciplinary records, and records
regarding academic performance. Students shall have the right to provide
a written explanation for documents in their files. The explanation
shall be included in the graduate student’s educational records file.

3.2.4 All policies and practices dealing with the acquisition and
dissemination of information in graduate student records shall be
formulated with due regard for the graduate student’s right to privacy
and access.

3.2.5 All graduate student educational records used to make
determinations of progress in the graduate student’s academic program or
employment shall include a notation of the name of the person who
supplied the information and the date of its entry, where practical,
with the exception of central, Student Information System records.

3.2.6 Confidential records shall be responsibly handled. Units shall
train persons handling such records in appropriate methods of keeping
and disposing of confidential records.

3.2.7 No one outside the faculty or administrative staff of Michigan
State University, except as permitted or specified by law, may have
access to the record of a graduate student’s offenses against University
regulations without the written permission of the student.

3.2.8 All policies governing the maintenance and the selective release
of records and of portions of records shall be made public in an
appropriate manner and shall be subject to judicial review as provided
in Article 5.

3.2.8.1 These policies and practices shall conform to current federal
and State law. In addition, any changes to the policies shall be made
known to the graduate student body through the all-university graduate
student governing body.

 

[Michigan State University - Spartans Will.]

© 2010 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI
48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.

-   MSU Homepage
-   Site Map

STUDENT LIFE
101 Student Services Building | East Lansing, MI 48824-1113
Phone: 517-355-8286 | Fax: 517-353-5495
